.nh
.TH "X86-RDTSCP" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
RDTSCP - READ TIME-STAMP COUNTER AND PROCESSOR ID
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode*\fR	\fB\fCInstruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64\-Bit Mode\fR	\fB\fCCompat/Leg Mode\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
0F 01 F9	RDTSCP	ZO	Valid	Valid	T{
Read 64\-bit time\-stamp counter and IA32
T}
\_
TSC
\_
T{
AUX value into EDX:EAX and ECX.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
Op/En	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
ZO	NA	NA	NA	NA
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Reads the current value of the processor’s time\-stamp counter (a 64\-bit
MSR) into the EDX:EAX registers and also reads the value of the
IA32\_TSC\_AUX MSR (address C0000103H) into the ECX register. The EDX
register is loaded with the high\-order 32 bits of the IA32\_TSC MSR; the
EAX register is loaded with the low\-order 32 bits of the IA32\_TSC MSR;
and the ECX register is loaded with the low\-order 32\-bits of
IA32\_TSC\_AUX MSR. On processors that support the Intel 64
architecture, the high\-order 32 bits of each of RAX, RDX, and RCX are
cleared.

.PP
The processor monotonically increments the time\-stamp counter MSR every
clock cycle and resets it to 0 whenever the processor is reset. See
“Time Stamp Counter” in Chapter 17 of the Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual, Volume 3B, for specific
details of the time stamp counter behavior.

.PP
The time stamp disable (TSD) flag in register CR4 restricts the use of
the RDTSCP instruction as follows. When the flag is clear, the RDTSCP
instruction can be executed at any privilege level; when the flag is
set, the instruction can only be executed at privilege level 0.

.PP
The RDTSCP instruction is not a serializing instruction, but it does
wait until all previous instructions have executed and all previous
loads are globally visible.1 But it does not wait for previous stores to
be globally visible, and subsequent instructions may begin execution
before the read operation is performed. The following items may guide
software seeking to order executions of RDTSCP:

.PP
.RS

.PP
1\&. A load is considered to become globally visible when the value to
be loaded is determined.

.RE

.RS
.IP \(bu 2
If software requires RDTSCP to be executed only after all previous
stores are globally visible, it can execute MFENCE immediately
before RDTSCP.
.IP \(bu 2
If software requires RDTSCP to be executed prior to execution of any
subsequent instruction (including any memory accesses), it can
execute LFENCE immediately after RDTSCP.

.RE

.PP
See “Changes to Instruction Behavior in VMX Non\-Root Operation” in
Chapter 25 of the Intel® 64 and IA\-32 Architectures Software Developer’s
Manual, Volume 3C, for more information about the behavior of this
instruction in VMX non\-root operation.

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
IF (CR4.TSD = 0) or (CPL = 0) or (CR0.PE = 0)
    THEN
        EDX:EAX ← TimeStampCounter;
        ECX ← IA32\_TSC\_AUX[31:0];
    ELSE (* CR4.TSD = 1 and (CPL = 1, 2, or 3) and CR0.PE = 1 *)
        #GP(0);
FI;

.fi
.RE

.SH FLAGS AFFECTED
.PP
None.

.SH PROTECTED MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If the TSD flag in register CR4 is set and the CPL is greater than 0.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
	If CPUID.80000001H:EDX.RDTSCP
[
bit 27
]
 = 0.
.TE

.SH REAL\-ADDRESS MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
	If CPUID.80000001H:EDX.RDTSCP
[
bit 27
]
 = 0.
.TE

.SH VIRTUAL\-8086 MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If the TSD flag in register CR4 is set.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
	If CPUID.80000001H:EDX.RDTSCP
[
bit 27
]
 = 0.
.TE

.SH COMPATIBILITY MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH 64\-BIT MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
