.nh
.TH "X86-SHA1MSG2" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
SHA1MSG2 - PERFORM A FINAL CALCULATION FOR THE NEXT FOUR SHA1 MESSAGE DWORDS
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode/Instruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64/32 bit Mode Support\fR	\fB\fCCPUID Feature Flag\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
T{
NP 0F 38 CA /r SHA1MSG2 xmm1, xmm2/m128
T}
	RM	V/V	SHA	T{
Performs the final calculation for the next four SHA1 message dwords using intermediate results from xmm1 and the previous message dwords from xmm2/m128, storing the result in xmm1.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l 
l l l l .
Op/En	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3
RM	ModRM:reg (r, w)	ModRM:r/m (r)	NA
.TE

.SS Description
.PP
The SHA1MSG2 instruction is one of two SHA1 message scheduling
instructions. The instruction performs the final calculation to derive
the next four SHA1 message dwords.

.SS Operation
.SS SHA1MSG2
.PP
.RS

.nf
W13←SRC2[95:64] ;
W14←SRC2[63: 32] ;
W15←SRC2[31: 0] ;
W16←(SRC1[127:96] XOR W13 ) ROL 1;
W17←(SRC1[95:64] XOR W14) ROL 1;
W18←(SRC1[63: 32] XOR W15) ROL 1;
W19←(SRC1[31: 0] XOR W16) ROL 1;
DEST[127:96] ← W16;
DEST[95:64] ← W17;
DEST[63:32] ← W18;
DEST[31:0] ← W19;

.fi
.RE

.SS Intel C/C++ Compiler Intrinsic Equivalent
.PP
.RS

.nf
SHA1MSG2: \_\_m128i \_mm\_sha1msg2\_epu32(\_\_m128i, \_\_m128i);

.fi
.RE

.SS Flags Affected
.PP
None

.SS SIMD Floating\-Point Exceptions
.PP
None

.SS Other Exceptions
.PP
See Exceptions Type 4.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
