.nh
.TH "X86-SUB" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
SUB - SUBTRACT
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode\fR	\fB\fCInstruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64\-Bit Mode\fR	\fB\fCCompat/Leg Mode\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
2C ib	SUB AL, imm8	I	Valid	Valid	Subtract imm8 from AL.
2D iw	SUB AX, imm16	I	Valid	Valid	Subtract imm16 from AX.
2D id	SUB EAX, imm32	I	Valid	Valid	Subtract imm32 from EAX.
REX.W + 2D id	SUB RAX, imm32	I	Valid	N.E.	T{
Subtract imm32 sign\-extended to 64\-bits from RAX.
T}
80 /5 ib	SUB r/m8, imm8	MI	Valid	Valid	Subtract r/m8.
REX + 80 /5 ib	SUB r/m8*, imm8	MI	Valid	N.E.	Subtract r/m8.
81 /5 iw	SUB r/m16, imm16	MI	Valid	Valid	Subtract r/m16.
81 /5 id	SUB r/m32, imm32	MI	Valid	Valid	Subtract r/m32.
REX.W + 81 /5 id	SUB r/m64, imm32	MI	Valid	N.E.	Subtract r/m64.
83 /5 ib	SUB r/m16, imm8	MI	Valid	Valid	Subtract sign\-extended r/m16.
83 /5 ib	SUB r/m32, imm8	MI	Valid	Valid	Subtract sign\-extended r/m32.
REX.W + 83 /5 ib	SUB r/m64, imm8	MI	Valid	N.E.	Subtract sign\-extended r/m64.
28 /r	SUB r/m8, r8	MR	Valid	Valid	Subtract r/m8.
REX + 28 /r	SUB r/m8*, r8*	MR	Valid	N.E.	Subtract r/m8.
29 /r	SUB r/m16, r16	MR	Valid	Valid	Subtract r/m16.
29 /r	SUB r/m32, r32	MR	Valid	Valid	Subtract r/m32.
REX.W + 29 /r	SUB r/m64, r64	MR	Valid	N.E.	Subtract r/m64.
2A /r	SUB r8, r/m8	RM	Valid	Valid	Subtract r8.
REX + 2A /r	SUB r8*, r/m8*	RM	Valid	N.E.	Subtract r8.
2B /r	SUB r16, r/m16	RM	Valid	Valid	Subtract r16.
2B /r	SUB r32, r/m32	RM	Valid	Valid	Subtract r32.
REX.W + 2B /r	SUB r64, r/m64	RM	Valid	N.E.	Subtract r64.
.TE

.PP
.RS

.PP
*
In64\-bitmode,r/m8cannotbeencodedtoaccessthefollowingbyteregistersifaREXprefixisused:AH,BH,CH,DH.

.RE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
Op/En	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
I	AL/AX/EAX/RAX	imm8/16/32	NA	NA
MI	ModRM:r/m (r, w)	imm8/16/32	NA	NA
MR	ModRM:r/m (r, w)	ModRM:reg (r)	NA	NA
RM	ModRM:reg (r, w)	ModRM:r/m (r)	NA	NA
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Subtracts the second operand (source operand) from the first operand
(destination operand) and stores the result in the destination operand.
The destination operand can be a register or a memory location; the
source operand can be an immediate, register, or memory location.
(However, two memory operands cannot be used in one instruction.) When
an immediate value is used as an operand, it is sign\-extended to the
length of the destination operand format.

.PP
The SUB instruction performs integer subtraction. It evaluates the
result for both signed and unsigned integer operands and sets the OF and
CF flags to indicate an overflow in the signed or unsigned result,
respectively. The SF flag indicates the sign of the signed result.

.PP
In 64\-bit mode, the instruction’s default operation size is 32 bits.
Using a REX prefix in the form of REX.R permits access to additional
registers (R8\-R15). Using a REX prefix in the form of REX.W promotes
operation to 64 bits. See the summary chart at the beginning of this
section for encoding data and limits.

.PP
This instruction can be used with a LOCK prefix to allow the instruction
to be executed atomically.

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
DEST ← (DEST – SRC);

.fi
.RE

.SH FLAGS AFFECTED
.PP
The OF, SF, ZF, AF, PF, and CF flags are set according to the result.

.SH PROTECTED MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If the destination is located in a non\-writable segment.
T}
	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
	T{
If the DS, ES, FS, or GS register contains a NULL segment selector.
T}
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made while the current privilege level is 3.
T}
#UD	T{
If the LOCK prefix is used but the destination is not a memory operand.
T}
.TE

.SH REAL\-ADDRESS MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
#SS	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#UD	T{
If the LOCK prefix is used but the destination is not a memory operand.
T}
.TE

.SH VIRTUAL\-8086 MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made.
T}
#UD	T{
If the LOCK prefix is used but the destination is not a memory operand.
T}
.TE

.SH COMPATIBILITY MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH 64\-BIT MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory address referencing the SS segment is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#GP(0)	T{
If the memory address is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made while the current privilege level is 3.
T}
#UD	T{
If the LOCK prefix is used but the destination is not a memory operand.
T}
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
