.nh
.TH "X86-VEXP2PD" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
VEXP2PD - APPROXIMATION TO THE EXPONENTIAL 2^X OF PACKED DOUBLE-PRECISION FLOATING-POINT VALUES WITH LESS THAN 2^-23 RELATIVE ERROR
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode/Instruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64/32 bit Mode Support\fR	\fB\fCCPUID Feature Flag\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
T{
EVEX.512.66.0F38.W1 C8 /r VEXP2PD zmm1 {k1}{z}, zmm2/m512/m64bcst {sae}
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512ER	T{
Computes approximations to the exponential 2^x (with less than 2^\-23 of maximum relative error) of the packed double\-precision floating\-point values from zmm2/m512/m64bcst and stores the floating\-point result in zmm1with writemask k1.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
Op/En	Tuple Type	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
A	Full	ModRM:reg (r, w)	ModRM:r/m (r)	NA	NA
.TE

.SS Description
.PP
Computes the approximate base\-2 exponential evaluation of the
double\-precision floating\-point values in the source operand (the second
operand) and stores the results to the destination operand (the first
operand) using the writemask k1. The approximate base\-2 exponential is
evaluated with less than 2^\-23 of relative error.

.PP
Denormal input values are treated as zeros and do not signal #DE,
irrespective of MXCSR.DAZ. Denormal results are flushed to zeros and do
not signal #UE, irrespective of MXCSR.FTZ.

.PP
The source operand is a ZMM register, a 512\-bit memory location or a
512\-bit vector broadcasted from a 64\-bit memory location. The
destination operand is a ZMM register, conditionally updated using
writemask k1.

.PP
EVEX.vvvv is reserved and must be 1111b otherwise instructions will
#UD.

.SS A numerically exact implementation of VEXP2xx can be found at https://software.intel.com/en\-us/articles/refer\-
.SS ence\-implementations\-for\-IA\-approximation\-instructions\-vrcp14\-vrsqrt14\-vrcp28\-vrsqrt28\-vexp2.
.SS Operation
.SS VEXP2PD
.PP
.RS

.nf
(KL, VL) = (8, 512)
FOR j←0 TO KL\-1
    i←j * 64
    IF k1[j] OR *no writemask* THEN
            IF (EVEX.b = 1) AND (SRC *is memory*)
                THEN DEST[i+63:i]←EXP2\_23\_DP(SRC[63:0])
                ELSE DEST[i+63:i]←EXP2\_23\_DP(SRC[i+63:i])
            FI;
    ELSE
        IF *merging\-masking* ; merging\-masking
            THEN *DEST[i+63:i] remains unchanged*
            ELSE ; zeroing\-masking
                DEST[i+63:i] ← 0
        FI;
    FI;
ENDFOR;

.fi
.RE

.TS
allbox;
l l l 
l l l .
\fB\fCSource Input\fR	\fB\fCResult\fR	\fB\fCComments\fR
NaN	QNaN(src)	If (SRC = SNaN) then 
#
I
+∞	+∞	+/\-0	1.0f	Exact result
\-∞	+0.0f	Integral value N	2^ (N)	Exact result
.TE

.PP
Table 6\-33. Special Values Behavior

.SS Intel C/C++ Compiler Intrinsic Equivalent
.PP
.RS

.nf
VEXP2PD \_\_m512d \_mm512\_exp2a23\_round\_pd (\_\_m512d a, int sae);

VEXP2PD \_\_m512d \_mm512\_mask\_exp2a23\_round\_pd (\_\_m512d a, \_\_mmask8 m, \_\_m512d b, int sae);

VEXP2PD \_\_m512d \_mm512\_maskz\_exp2a23\_round\_pd ( \_\_mmask8 m, \_\_m512d b, int sae);

.fi
.RE

.SS SIMD Floating\-Point Exceptions
.PP
Invalid (if SNaN input), Overflow

.SS Other Exceptions
.PP
See Exceptions Type E2.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
