.nh
.TH "X86-FCOMI-FCOMIP-FUCOMI-FUCOMIP" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
FCOMI-FCOMIP-FUCOMI-FUCOMIP - COMPARE FLOATING POINT VALUES AND SET EFLAGS
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode\fR	\fB\fCInstruction\fR	\fB\fC64\-Bit Mode\fR	\fB\fCCompat/Leg Mode\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
DB F0+i	FCOMI ST, ST(i)	Valid	Valid	T{
Compare ST(0) with ST(i) and set status flags accordingly.
T}
DF F0+i	FCOMIP ST, ST(i)	Valid	Valid	T{
Compare ST(0) with ST(i), set status flags accordingly, and pop register stack.
T}
DB E8+i	FUCOMI ST, ST(i)	Valid	Valid	T{
Compare ST(0) with ST(i), check for ordered values, and set status flags accordingly.
T}
DF E8+i	FUCOMIP ST, ST(i)	Valid	Valid	T{
Compare ST(0) with ST(i), check for ordered values, set status flags accordingly, and pop register stack.
T}
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Performs an unordered comparison of the contents of registers ST(0) and
ST(i) and sets the status flags ZF, PF, and CF in the EFLAGS register
according to the results (see the table below). The sign of zero is
ignored for comparisons, so that –0.0 is equal to +0.0.

.TS
allbox;
l l l l 
l l l l .
\fB\fCComparison Results*\fR	\fB\fCZF\fR	\fB\fCPF\fR	\fB\fCCF\fR
ST0 \&gt; ST(i)	0	0	0
ST0 \&lt; ST(i)	0	0	1
ST0 = ST(i)	1	0	0
Unordered**	1	1	1
.TE

.PP
Table 3\-22. FCOMI/FCOMIP/ FUCOMI/FUCOMIP Results

.PP
.RS

.PP
* SeetheIA\-32ArchitectureCompatibilitysectionbelow.

.PP
** Flags not set if unmasked invalid\-arithmetic\-operand (#IA)
exception is generated.

.RE

.PP
An unordered comparison checks the class of the numbers being compared
(see “FXAM—Examine Floating\-Point” in this chapter). The FUCOMI/FUCOMIP
instructions perform the same operations as the FCOMI/FCOMIP
instructions. The only difference is that the FUCOMI/FUCOMIP
instructions raise the invalid\-arithmetic\-operand exception (#IA) only
when either or both operands are an SNaN or are in an unsupported
format; QNaNs cause the condition code flags to be set to unordered, but
do not cause an exception to be generated. The FCOMI/FCOMIP instructions
raise an invalid\-operation exception when either or both of the operands
are a NaN value of any kind or are in an unsupported format.

.PP
If the operation results in an invalid\-arithmetic\-operand exception
being raised, the status flags in the EFLAGS register are set only if
the exception is masked.

.PP
The FCOMI/FCOMIP and FUCOMI/FUCOMIP instructions set the OF, SF and AF
flags to zero in the EFLAGS register (regardless of whether an
invalid\-operation exception is detected).

.PP
The FCOMIP and FUCOMIP instructions also pop the register stack
following the comparison operation. To pop the register stack, the
processor marks the ST(0) register as empty and increments the stack
pointer (TOP) by 1.

.PP
This instruction’s operation is the same in non\-64\-bit modes and 64\-bit
mode.

.SH IA\-32 ARCHITECTURE COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The FCOMI/FCOMIP/FUCOMI/FUCOMIP instructions were introduced to the
IA\-32 Architecture in the P6 family processors and are not available in
earlier IA\-32 processors.

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
CASE (relation of operands) OF
    ST(0) > ST(i):
                        ZF, PF, CF ← 000;
    ST(0) < ST(i):
                        ZF, PF, CF ← 001;
    ST(0) = ST(i):
                        ZF, PF, CF ← 100;
ESAC;
IF Instruction is FCOMI or FCOMIP
    THEN
        IF ST(0) or ST(i) = NaN or unsupported format
            THEN
                #IA
                IF FPUControlWord.IM = 1
                        THEN
                            ZF, PF, CF ← 111;
                FI;
        FI;
FI;
IF Instruction is FUCOMI or FUCOMIP
    THEN
        IF ST(0) or ST(i) = QNaN, but not SNaN or unsupported format
            THEN
                ZF, PF, CF ← 111;
            ELSE (* ST(0) or ST(i) is SNaN or unsupported format *)
                    #IA;
                IF FPUControlWord.IM = 1
                        THEN
                            ZF, PF, CF ← 111;
                FI;
        FI;
FI;
IF Instruction is FCOMIP or FUCOMIP
    THEN
        PopRegisterStack;
FI;

.fi
.RE

.SH FPU FLAGS AFFECTED
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
C1	Set to 0.
C0, C2, C3	Not affected.
.TE

.SH FLOATING\-POINT EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#IS	Stack underflow occurred.
#IA	T{
(FCOMI or FCOMIP instruction) One or both operands are NaN values or have unsupported formats.
T}
	T{
(FUCOMI or FUCOMIP instruction) One or both operands are SNaN values (but not QNaNs) or have undefined formats. Detection of a QNaN value does not raise an invalid\-operand exception.
T}
.TE

.SH PROTECTED MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#NM	CR0.EM
[
bit 2
]
 or CR0.TS
[
bit 3
]
 = 1.
#MF	T{
If there is a pending x87 FPU exception.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH REAL\-ADDRESS MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH VIRTUAL\-8086 MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH COMPATIBILITY MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH 64\-BIT MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
