.nh
.TH "X86-FRSTOR" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
FRSTOR - RESTORE X87 FPU STATE
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode\fR	\fB\fCInstruction\fR	\fB\fC64\-Bit Mode\fR	\fB\fCCompat/Leg Mode\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
DD /4	FRSTOR m94/108byte	Valid	Valid	Load FPU state from m108byte.
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Loads the FPU state (operating environment and register stack) from the
memory area specified with the source operand. This state data is
typically written to the specified memory location by a previous
FSAVE/FNSAVE instruction.

.PP
The FPU operating environment consists of the FPU control word, status
word, tag word, instruction pointer, data pointer, and last opcode.
Figures 8\-9 through 8\-12 in the Intel® 64 and IA\-32 Architectures
Software Developer’s Manual, Volume 1, show the layout in memory of the
stored environment, depending on the operating mode of the processor
(protected or real) and the current operand\-size attribute (16\-bit or
32\-bit). In virtual\-8086 mode, the real mode layouts are used. The
contents of the FPU register stack are stored in the 80 bytes
immediately following the operating environment image.

.PP
The FRSTOR instruction should be executed in the same operating mode as
the corresponding FSAVE/FNSAVE instruction.

.PP
If one or more unmasked exception bits are set in the new FPU status
word, a floating\-point exception will be generated. To avoid raising
exceptions when loading a new operating environment, clear all the
exception flags in the FPU status word that is being loaded.

.PP
This instruction’s operation is the same in non\-64\-bit modes and 64\-bit
mode.

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
FPUControlWord ← SRC[FPUControlWord];
FPUStatusWord ← SRC[FPUStatusWord];
FPUTagWord ← SRC[FPUTagWord];
FPUDataPointer ← SRC[FPUDataPointer];
FPUInstructionPointer ← SRC[FPUInstructionPointer];
FPULastInstructionOpcode ← SRC[FPULastInstructionOpcode];
ST(0) ← SRC[ST(0)];
ST(1) ← SRC[ST(1)];
ST(2) ← SRC[ST(2)];
ST(3) ← SRC[ST(3)];
ST(4) ← SRC[ST(4)];
ST(5) ← SRC[ST(5)];
ST(6) ← SRC[ST(6)];
ST(7) ← SRC[ST(7)];

.fi
.RE

.SH FPU FLAGS AFFECTED
.PP
The C0, C1, C2, C3 flags are loaded.

.SH FLOATING\-POINT EXCEPTIONS
.PP
None; however, this operation might unmask an existing exception that
has been detected but not generated, because it was masked. Here, the
exception is generated at the completion of the instruction.

.SH PROTECTED MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
	T{
If the DS, ES, FS, or GS register is used to access memory and it contains a NULL segment selector.
T}
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#NM	CR0.EM
[
bit 2
]
 or CR0.TS
[
bit 3
]
 = 1.
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made while the current privilege level is 3.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH REAL\-ADDRESS MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
#SS	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#NM	CR0.EM
[
bit 2
]
 or CR0.TS
[
bit 3
]
 = 1.
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH VIRTUAL\-8086 MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#NM	CR0.EM
[
bit 2
]
 or CR0.TS
[
bit 3
]
 = 1.
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH COMPATIBILITY MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH 64\-BIT MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory address referencing the SS segment is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#GP(0)	T{
If the memory address is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#NM	CR0.EM
[
bit 2
]
 or CR0.TS
[
bit 3
]
 = 1.
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made while the current privilege level is 3.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
