.nh
.TH "X86-CVTTSD2SI" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
CVTTSD2SI - CONVERT WITH TRUNCATION SCALAR DOUBLE-PRECISION FLOATING-POINT VALUE TO SIGNED INTEGER
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode/Instruction\fR	\fB\fCOp / En\fR	\fB\fC64/32 bit Mode Support\fR	\fB\fCCPUID Feature Flag\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
T{
F2 0F 2C /r CVTTSD2SI r32, xmm1/m64
T}
	A	V/V	SSE2	T{
Convert one double\-precision floating\-point value from xmm1/m64 to one signed doubleword integer in r32 using truncation.
T}
T{
F2 REX.W 0F 2C /r CVTTSD2SI r64, xmm1/m64
T}
	A	V/N.E.	SSE2	T{
Convert one double\-precision floating\-point value from xmm1/m64 to one signed quadword integer in r64 using truncation.
T}
T{
VEX.LIG.F2.0F.W0 2C /r 1 VCVTTSD2SI r32, xmm1/m64
T}
	A	V/V	AVX	T{
Convert one double\-precision floating\-point value from xmm1/m64 to one signed doubleword integer in r32 using truncation.
T}
T{
VEX.LIG.F2.0F.W1 2C /r 1 VCVTTSD2SI r64, xmm1/m64
T}
	B	V/N.E.2	AVX	T{
Convert one double\-precision floating\-point value from xmm1/m64 to one signed quadword integer in r64 using truncation.
T}
T{
EVEX.LIG.F2.0F.W0 2C /r VCVTTSD2SI r32, xmm1/m64{sae}
T}
	B	V/V	AVX512F	T{
Convert one double\-precision floating\-point value from xmm1/m64 to one signed doubleword integer in r32 using truncation.
T}
T{
EVEX.LIG.F2.0F.W1 2C /r VCVTTSD2SI r64, xmm1/m64{sae}
T}
	B	V/N.E.2	AVX512F	T{
Convert one double\-precision floating\-point value from xmm1/m64 to one signed quadword integer in r64 using truncation.
T}
.TE

.PP
.RS

.PP
1\&. Software should ensure VCVTTSD2SI is encoded with VEX.L=0.
Encoding VCVTTSD2SI with VEX.L=1 may encounter unpredictable behavior
across different processor generations.

.PP
2\&. For this specific instruction, VEX.W/EVEX.W in non\-64 bit is
ignored; the instructions behaves as if the W0 version is used.

.RE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
Op/En	Tuple Type	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
A	NA	ModRM:reg (w)	ModRM:r/m (r)	NA	NA
B	Tuple1 Fixed	ModRM:reg (w)	ModRM:r/m (r)	NA	NA
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Converts a double\-precision floating\-point value in the source operand
(the second operand) to a signed double\-word integer (or signed quadword
integer if operand size is 64 bits) in the destination operand (the
first operand). The source operand can be an XMM register or a 64\-bit
memory location. The destination operand is a general purpose register.
When the source operand is an XMM register, the double\-precision
floating\-point value is contained in the low quadword of the register.

.PP
When a conversion is inexact, the value returned is rounded according to
the rounding control bits in the MXCSR register.

.PP
If a converted result exceeds the range limits of signed doubleword
integer (in non\-64\-bit modes or 64\-bit mode with REX.W/VEX.W/EVEX.W=0),
the floating\-point invalid exception is raised, and if this exception is
masked, the indefinite integer value (80000000H) is returned.

.PP
If a converted result exceeds the range limits of signed quadword
integer (in 64\-bit mode and REX.W/VEX.W/EVEX.W = 1), the floating\-point
invalid exception is raised, and if this exception is masked, the
indefinite integer value (80000000\_00000000H) is returned.

.PP
Legacy SSE instructions: In 64\-bit mode, Use of the REX.W prefix
promotes the instruction to 64\-bit operation. See the summary chart at
the beginning of this section for encoding data and limits.

.PP
VEX.W1 and EVEX.W1 versions: promotes the instruction to produce 64\-bit
data in 64\-bit mode.

.PP
Note: VEX.vvvv and EVEX.vvvv are reserved and must be 1111b, otherwise
instructions will #UD.

.PP
Software should ensure VCVTTSD2SI is encoded with VEX.L=0. Encoding
VCVTTSD2SI with VEX.L=1 may encounter unpredictable behavior across
different processor generations.

.SH OPERATION
.SS (V)CVTTSD2SI (All versions)
.PP
.RS

.nf
IF 64\-Bit Mode and OperandSize = 64
THEN
    DEST[63:0] ← Convert\_Double\_Precision\_Floating\_Point\_To\_Integer\_Truncate(SRC[63:0]);
ELSE
    DEST[31:0] ← Convert\_Double\_Precision\_Floating\_Point\_To\_Integer\_Truncate(SRC[63:0]);
FI;

.fi
.RE

.SH INTEL C/C++ COMPILER INTRINSIC EQUIVALENT
.PP
.RS

.nf
VCVTTSD2SI int \_mm\_cvttsd\_i32( \_\_m128d a);

VCVTTSD2SI int \_mm\_cvtt\_roundsd\_i32( \_\_m128d a, int sae);

VCVTTSD2SI \_\_int64 \_mm\_cvttsd\_i64( \_\_m128d a);

VCVTTSD2SI \_\_int64 \_mm\_cvtt\_roundsd\_i64( \_\_m128d a, int sae);

CVTTSD2SI int \_mm\_cvttsd\_si32( \_\_m128d a);

CVTTSD2SI \_\_int64 \_mm\_cvttsd\_si64( \_\_m128d a);

.fi
.RE

.SH SIMD FLOATING\-POINT EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Invalid, Precision

.SH OTHER EXCEPTIONS
.PP
VEX\-encoded instructions, see Exceptions Type 3; additionally

.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#UD	If VEX.vvvv != 1111B.
.TE

.PP
EVEX\-encoded instructions, see Exceptions Type E3NF.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
