.nh
.TH "X86-RDPID" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
RDPID - READ PROCESSOR ID
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode/Instruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64/32\-bit Mode\fR	\fB\fCCPUID Feature Flag\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
F3 0F C7 /7 RDPID r32	R	N.E./V	RDPID	Read IA32
\_
TSC
\_
AUX into r32.
F3 0F C7 /7 RDPID r64	R	V/N.E.	RDPID	Read IA32
\_
TSC
\_
AUX into r64.
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING1
.PP
.RS

.PP
1.ModRM.MOD = 011B required

.RE

.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
Op/En	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
R	ModRM:r/m (w)	NA	NA	NA
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Reads the value of the IA32\_TSC\_AUX MSR (address C0000103H) into the
destination register. The value of CS.D and operand\-size prefixes (66H
and REX.W) do not affect the behavior of the RDPID instruction.

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
DEST ← IA32\_TSC\_AUX

.fi
.RE

.SH FLAGS AFFECTED
.PP
None.

.SH PROTECTED MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
	If CPUID.7H.0:ECX.RDPID
[
bit 22
]
 = 0.
.TE

.SH REAL\-ADDRESS MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH VIRTUAL\-8086 MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH COMPATIBILITY MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH 64\-BIT MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
