.nh
.TH "X86-FSTSW-FNSTSW" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
FSTSW-FNSTSW - STORE X87 FPU STATUS WORD
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode\fR	\fB\fCInstruction\fR	\fB\fC64\-Bit Mode\fR	\fB\fCCompat/Leg Mode\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
9B DD /7	FSTSW m2byte	Valid	Valid	T{
Store FPU status word at m2byte after checking for pending unmasked floating\-point exceptions.
T}
9B DF E0	FSTSW AX	Valid	Valid	T{
Store FPU status word in AX register after checking for pending unmasked floating\-point exceptions.
T}
DD /7	FNSTSW* m2byte	Valid	Valid	T{
Store FPU status word at m2byte without checking for pending unmasked floating\-point exceptions.
T}
DF E0	FNSTSW* AX	Valid	Valid	T{
Store FPU status word in AX register without checking for pending unmasked floating\-point exceptions.
T}
.TE

.PP
.RS

.PP
* SeeIA\-32ArchitectureCompatibilitysectionbelow.

.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Stores the current value of the x87 FPU status word in the destination
location. The destination operand can be either a two\-byte memory
location or the AX register. The FSTSW instruction checks for and
handles pending unmasked floating\-point exceptions before storing the
status word; the FNSTSW instruction does not.

.PP
The FNSTSW AX form of the instruction is used primarily in conditional
branching (for instance, after an FPU comparison instruction or an
FPREM, FPREM1, or FXAM instruction), where the direction of the branch
depends on the state of the FPU condition code flags. (See the section
titled “Branching and Conditional Moves on FPU Condition Codes” in
Chapter 8 of the Intel® 64 and IA\-32 Architectures Software Developer’s
Manual, Volume 1.) This instruction can also be used to invoke exception
handlers (by examining the exception flags) in environments that do not
use interrupts. When the FNSTSW AX instruction is executed, the AX
register is updated before the processor executes any further
instructions. The status stored in the AX register is thus guaranteed to
be from the completion of the prior FPU instruction.

.PP
The assembler issues two instructions for the FSTSW instruction (an
FWAIT instruction followed by an FNSTSW instruction), and the processor
executes each of these instructions separately. If an exception is
generated for either of these instructions, the save EIP points to the
instruction that caused the exception.

.PP
This instruction’s operation is the same in non\-64\-bit modes and 64\-bit
mode.

.SH IA\-32 ARCHITECTURE COMPATIBILITY
.PP
When operating a Pentium or Intel486 processor in MS\-DOS compatibility
mode, it is possible (under unusual circumstances) for an FNSTSW
instruction to be interrupted prior to being executed to handle a
pending FPU exception. See the section titled “No\-Wait FPU Instructions
Can Get FPU Interrupt in Window” in Appendix D of the Intel® 64 and
IA\-32 Architectures Software Developer’s Manual, Volume 1, for a
description of these circumstances. An FNSTSW instruction cannot be
interrupted in this way on later Intel processors, except for the Intel
QuarkTM X1000 processor.

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
DEST ← FPUStatusWord;

.fi
.RE

.SH FPU FLAGS AFFECTED
.PP
The C0, C1, C2, and C3 are undefined.

.SH FLOATING\-POINT EXCEPTIONS
.PP
None

.SH PROTECTED MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If the destination is located in a non\-writable segment.
T}
	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
	T{
If the DS, ES, FS, or GS register is used to access memory and it contains a NULL segment selector.
T}
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#NM	CR0.EM
[
bit 2
]
 or CR0.TS
[
bit 3
]
 = 1.
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made while the current privilege level is 3.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH REAL\-ADDRESS MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
#SS	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#NM	CR0.EM
[
bit 2
]
 or CR0.TS
[
bit 3
]
 = 1.
.TE

.SH VIRTUAL\-8086 MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#NM	CR0.EM
[
bit 2
]
 or CR0.TS
[
bit 3
]
 = 1.
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH COMPATIBILITY MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH 64\-BIT MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory address referencing the SS segment is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#GP(0)	T{
If the memory address is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#NM	CR0.EM
[
bit 2
]
 or CR0.TS
[
bit 3
]
 = 1.
#MF	T{
If there is a pending x87 FPU exception.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made while the current privilege level is 3.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
