.nh
.TH "X86-MWAIT" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
MWAIT - MONITOR WAIT
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode\fR	\fB\fCInstruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64\-Bit Mode\fR	\fB\fCCompat/Leg Mode\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
0F 01 C9	MWAIT	ZO	Valid	Valid	T{
A hint that allows the processor to stop instruction execution and enter an implementation\-dependent optimized state until occurrence of a class of events.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
Op/En	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
ZO	NA	NA	NA	NA
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
MWAIT instruction provides hints to allow the processor to enter an
implementation\-dependent optimized state. There are two principal
targeted usages: address\-range monitor and advanced power management.
Both usages of MWAIT require the use of the MONITOR instruction.

.PP
CPUID.01H:ECX.MONITOR[bit 3] indicates the availability of MONITOR and
MWAIT in the processor. When set, MWAIT may be executed only at
privilege level 0 (use at any other privilege level results in an
invalid\-opcode exception). The operating system or system BIOS may
disable this instruction by using the IA32\_MISC\_ENABLE MSR; disabling
MWAIT clears the CPUID feature flag and causes execution to generate an
invalid\-opcode exception.

.PP
This instruction’s operation is the same in non\-64\-bit modes and 64\-bit
mode.

.PP
ECX specifies optional extensions for the MWAIT instruction. EAX may
contain hints such as the preferred optimized state the processor should
enter. The first processors to implement MWAIT supported only the zero
value for EAX and ECX. Later processors allowed setting ECX[0] to
enable masked interrupts as break events for MWAIT (see below). Software
can use the CPUID instruction to determine the extensions and hints
supported by the processor.

.SH MWAIT FOR ADDRESS RANGE MONITORING
.PP
For address\-range monitoring, the MWAIT instruction operates with the
MONITOR instruction. The two instructions allow the definition of an
address at which to wait (MONITOR) and a
implementation\-dependent\-optimized operation to commence at the wait
address (MWAIT). The execution of MWAIT is a hint to the processor that
it can enter an implementation\-dependent\-optimized state while waiting
for an event or a store operation to the address range armed by MONITOR.

.PP
The following cause the processor to exit the
implementation\-dependent\-optimized state: a store to the address range
armed by the MONITOR instruction, an NMI or SMI, a debug exception, a
machine check exception, the BINIT# signal, the INIT# signal, and the
RESET# signal. Other implementation\-dependent events may also cause the
processor to exit the implementation\-dependent\-optimized state.

.PP
In addition, an external interrupt causes the processor to exit the
implementation\-dependent\-optimized state either (1) if the interrupt
would be delivered to software (e.g., as it would be if HLT had been
executed instead of MWAIT); or (2) if ECX[0] = 1. Software can execute
MWAIT with ECX[0] = 1 only if CPUID.05H:ECX[bit 1] = 1.
(Implementation\-specific conditions may result in an interrupt causing
the processor to exit the implementation\-dependent\-optimized state even
if interrupts are masked and ECX[0] = 0.)

.PP
Following exit from the implementation\-dependent\-optimized state,
control passes to the instruction following the MWAIT instruction. A
pending interrupt that is not masked (including an NMI or an SMI) may be
delivered before execution of that instruction. Unlike the HLT
instruction, the MWAIT instruction does not support a restart at the
MWAIT instruction following the handling of an SMI.

.PP
If the preceding MONITOR instruction did not successfully arm an address
range or if the MONITOR instruction has not been executed prior to
executing MWAIT, then the processor will not enter the
implementation\-dependent\-optimized state. Execution will resume at the
instruction following the MWAIT.

.SH MWAIT FOR POWER MANAGEMENT
.PP
MWAIT accepts a hint and optional extension to the processor that it can
enter a specified target C state while waiting for an event or a store
operation to the address range armed by MONITOR. Support for MWAIT
extensions for power management is indicated by CPUID.05H:ECX[bit 0]
reporting 1.

.PP
EAX and ECX are used to communicate the additional information to the
MWAIT instruction, such as the kind of optimized state the processor
should enter. ECX specifies optional extensions for the MWAIT
instruction. EAX may contain hints such as the preferred optimized state
the processor should enter. Implementation\-specific conditions may cause
a processor to ignore the hint and enter a different optimized state.
Future processor implementations may implement several optimized
“waiting” states and will select among those states based on the hint
argument.

.PP
Table 4\-10 describes the meaning of ECX and EAX registers for MWAIT
extensions.

.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
\fB\fCBits\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
0	T{
Treat interrupts as break events even if masked (e.g., even if EFLAGS.IF=0). May be set only if CPUID.05H:ECX
T}
[
bit 1
]
 = 1.
31: 1	Reserved
.TE

.PP
Table 4\-10. MWAIT Extension Register (ECX)

.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
\fB\fCBits\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
3:0	T{
Sub C\-state within a C\-state, indicated by bits 
T}
[
7:4
]
7:4	Target C\-state
*
T{
 Value of 0 means C1; 1 means C2 and so on Value of 01111B means C0 Note: Target C states for MWAIT extensions are processor\-specific C\-states, not ACPI C\-states
T}
31: 8	Reserved
.TE

.PP
Table 4\-11. MWAIT Hints Register (EAX)

.PP
Note that if MWAIT is used to enter any of the C\-states that are
numerically higher than C1, a store to the address range armed by the
MONITOR instruction will cause the processor to exit MWAIT only if the
store was originated by other processor agents. A store from
non\-processor agent might not cause the processor to exit MWAIT in such
cases.

.PP
For additional details of MWAIT extensions, see Chapter 14, “Power and
Thermal Management,” of Intel® 64 and IA\-32 Architectures Software
Developer’s Manual, Volume 3A.

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
(* MWAIT takes the argument in EAX as a hint extension and is architected to take the argument in ECX as an instruction extension
MWAIT EAX, ECX *)
{
WHILE ( (“Monitor Hardware is in armed state”)) {
    implementation\_dependent\_optimized\_state(EAX, ECX); }
Set the state of Monitor Hardware as triggered;
}

.fi
.RE

.SH INTEL C/C++ COMPILER INTRINSIC EQUIVALENT
.PP
.RS

.nf
MWAIT: void \_mm\_mwait(unsigned extensions, unsigned hints)

.fi
.RE

.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
MONITOR/MWAIT instruction pair must be coded in the same loop because
execution of the MWAIT instruction will trigger the monitor hardware. It
is not a proper usage to execute MONITOR once and then execute MWAIT in
a loop. Setting up MONITOR without executing MWAIT has no adverse
effects.

.PP
Typically the MONITOR/MWAIT pair is used in a sequence, such as:

.PP
EAX = Logical Address(Trigger)

.PP
ECX = 0 (*Hints *)

.PP
EDX = 0 (* Hints *)

.PP
IF ( !trigger\_store\_happened) {

.PP
MONITOR EAX, ECX, EDX

.PP
IF ( !trigger\_store\_happened ) {

.PP
MWAIT EAX, ECX

.PP
}

.PP
}

.PP
The above code sequence makes sure that a triggering store does not
happen between the first check of the trigger and the execution of the
monitor instruction. Without the second check that triggering store
would go un\-noticed. Typical usage of MONITOR and MWAIT would have the
above code sequence within a loop.

.SH NUMERIC EXCEPTIONS
.PP
None

.SH PROTECTED MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	If ECX
[
31:1
]
 ≠ 0.
	If ECX
[
0
]
 = 1 and CPUID.05H:ECX
[
bit 1
]
 = 0.
#UD	If CPUID.01H:ECX.MONITOR
[
bit 3
]
 = 0.
	T{
If current privilege level is not 0.
T}
.TE

.SH REAL ADDRESS MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP	If ECX
[
31:1
]
 ≠ 0.
	If ECX
[
0
]
 = 1 and CPUID.05H:ECX
[
bit 1
]
 = 0.
#UD	If CPUID.01H:ECX.MONITOR
[
bit 3
]
 = 0.
.TE

.SH VIRTUAL 8086 MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#UD	T{
The MWAIT instruction is not recognized in virtual\-8086 mode (even if CPUID.01H:ECX.MONITOR
T}
[
bit 3
]
 = 1).
.TE

.SH COMPATIBILITY MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH 64\-BIT MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	If RCX
[
63:1
]
 ≠ 0.
	If RCX
[
0
]
 = 1 and CPUID.05H:ECX
[
bit 1
]
 = 0.
#UD	T{
If the current privilege level is not 0.
T}
	If CPUID.01H:ECX.MONITOR
[
bit 3
]
 = 0.
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
