.nh
.TH "X86-CMPS-CMPSB-CMPSW-CMPSD-CMPSQ" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
CMPS-CMPSB-CMPSW-CMPSD-CMPSQ - COMPARE STRING OPERANDS
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode\fR	\fB\fCInstruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64\-Bit Mode\fR	\fB\fCCompat/Leg Mode\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
A6	CMPS m8, m8	ZO	Valid	Valid	T{
For legacy mode, compare byte at address DS:(E)SI with byte at address ES:(E)DI; For 64\-bit mode compare byte at address (R
T}
|
E)SI to byte at address (R
|
T{
E)DI. The status flags are set accordingly.
T}
A7	CMPS m16	ZO	Valid	Valid	T{
For legacy mode, compare word at address DS:(E)SI with word at address ES:(E)DI; For 64\-bit mode compare word at address (R
T}
|
E)SI with word at address (R
|
T{
E)DI. The status flags are set accordingly.
T}
A7	CMPS m32, m32	ZO	Valid	Valid	T{
For legacy mode, compare dword at address DS:(E)SI at dword at address ES:(E)DI; For 64\-bit mode compare dword at address (R
T}
|
E)SI at dword at address (R
|
T{
E)DI. The status flags are set accordingly.
T}
REX.W + A7	CMPS m64, m64	ZO	Valid	N.E.	T{
Compares quadword at address (R
T}
|
T{
E)SI with quadword at address (R
T}
|
T{
E)DI and sets the status flags accordingly.
T}
A6	CMPSB	ZO	Valid	Valid	T{
For legacy mode, compare byte at address DS:(E)SI with byte at address ES:(E)DI; For 64\-bit mode compare byte at address (R
T}
|
E)SI with byte at address (R
|
T{
E)DI. The status flags are set accordingly.
T}
A7	CMPSW	ZO	Valid	Valid	T{
For legacy mode, compare word at address DS:(E)SI with word at address ES:(E)DI; For 64\-bit mode compare word at address (R
T}
|
E)SI with word at address (R
|
T{
E)DI. The status flags are set accordingly.
T}
A7	CMPSD	ZO	Valid	Valid	T{
For legacy mode, compare dword at address DS:(E)SI with dword at address ES:(E)DI; For 64\-bit mode compare dword at address (R
T}
|
E)SI with dword at address (R
|
T{
E)DI. The status flags are set accordingly.
T}
REX.W + A7	CMPSQ	ZO	Valid	N.E.	T{
Compares quadword at address (R
T}
|
T{
E)SI with quadword at address (R
T}
|
T{
E)DI and sets the status flags accordingly.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
Op/En	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
ZO	NA	NA	NA	NA
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Compares the byte, word, doubleword, or quadword specified with the
first source operand with the byte, word, doubleword, or quadword
specified with the second source operand and sets the status flags in
the EFLAGS register according to the results.

.PP
Both source operands are located in memory. The address of the first
source operand is read from DS:SI, DS:ESI or RSI (depending on the
address\-size attribute of the instruction is 16, 32, or 64,
respectively). The address of the second source operand is read from
ES:DI, ES:EDI or RDI (again depending on the address\-size attribute of
the instruction is 16, 32, or 64). The DS segment may be overridden with
a segment override prefix, but the ES segment cannot be overridden.

.PP
At the assembly\-code level, two forms of this instruction are allowed:
the “explicit\-operands” form and the “no\-operands” form. The
explicit\-operands form (specified with the CMPS mnemonic) allows the two
source operands to be specified explicitly. Here, the source operands
should be symbols that indicate the size and location of the source
values. This explicit\-operand form is provided to allow documentation.
However, note that the documentation provided by this form can be
misleading. That is, the source operand symbols must specify the correct
type (size) of the operands (bytes, words, or doublewords, quadwords),
but they do not have to specify the correct loca\-

.PP
tion. Locations of the source operands are always specified by the
DS:(E)SI (or RSI) and ES:(E)DI (or RDI) registers, which must be loaded
correctly before the compare string instruction is executed.

.PP
The no\-operands form provides “short forms” of the byte, word, and
doubleword versions of the CMPS instructions. Here also the DS:(E)SI (or
RSI) and ES:(E)DI (or RDI) registers are assumed by the processor to
specify the location of the source operands. The size of the source
operands is selected with the mnemonic: CMPSB (byte comparison), CMPSW
(word comparison), CMPSD (doubleword comparison), or CMPSQ (quadword
comparison using REX.W).

.PP
After the comparison, the (E/R)SI and (E/R)DI registers increment or
decrement automatically according to the setting of the DF flag in the
EFLAGS register. (If the DF flag is 0, the (E/R)SI and (E/R)DI register
increment; if the DF flag is 1, the registers decrement.) The registers
increment or decrement by 1 for byte operations, by 2 for word
operations, 4 for doubleword operations. If operand size is 64, RSI and
RDI registers increment by 8 for quadword operations.

.PP
The CMPS, CMPSB, CMPSW, CMPSD, and CMPSQ instructions can be preceded by
the REP prefix for block comparisons. More often, however, these
instructions will be used in a LOOP construct that takes some action
based on the setting of the status flags before the next comparison is
made. See “REP/REPE/REPZ /REPNE/REPNZ—Repeat String Operation Prefix” in
Chapter 4 of the Intel® 64 and IA\-32 Architectures Software Developer’s
Manual, Volume 2B, for a description of the REP prefix.

.PP
In 64\-bit mode, the instruction’s default address size is 64 bits, 32
bit address size is supported using the prefix 67H. Use of the REX.W
prefix promotes doubleword operation to 64 bits (see CMPSQ). See the
summary chart at the beginning of this section for encoding data and
limits.

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
temp ← SRC1 \- SRC2;
SetStatusFlags(temp);
IF (64\-Bit Mode)
    THEN
        IF (Byte comparison)
        THEN IF DF = 0
            THEN
                (R|E)SI ← (R|E)SI + 1;
                (R|E)DI ← (R|E)DI + 1;
            ELSE
                (R|E)SI ← (R|E)SI – 1;
                (R|E)DI ← (R|E)DI – 1;
            FI;
        ELSE IF (Word comparison)
            THEN IF DF = 0
                THEN
                    (R|E)SI
                        ← (R|E)SI + 2;
                    (R|E)DI
                        ← (R|E)DI + 2;
                ELSE
                    (R|E)SI
                        ← (R|E)SI – 2;
                    (R|E)DI
                        ← (R|E)DI – 2;
                FI;
        ELSE IF (Doubleword
                        comparison)
            THEN IF DF = 0
                THEN
                    (R|E)SI
                        ← (R|E)SI + 4;
                    (R|E)DI
                        ← (R|E)DI + 4;
                ELSE
                    (R|E)SI
                        ← (R|E)SI – 4;
                        ← (R|E)DI – 4;
                FI;
        ELSE (* Quadword comparison *)
            THEN IF DF = 0
                (R|E)SI ← (R|E)SI + 8;
                (R|E)DI ← (R|E)DI + 8;
            ELSE
                (R|E)SI ← (R|E)SI – 8;
                (R|E)DI ← (R|E)DI – 8;
            FI;
        FI;
    ELSE (* Non\-64\-bit Mode *)
        IF (byte comparison)
        THEN IF DF = 0
            THEN
                (E)SI ← (E)SI + 1;
                (E)DI ← (E)DI + 1;
            ELSE
                (E)SI ← (E)SI – 1;
                (E)DI ← (E)DI – 1;
            FI;
        ELSE IF (Word comparison)
            THENIFDF =0
                (E)SI ← (E)SI + 2;
                (E)DI ← (E)DI + 2;
            ELSE
                (E)SI ← (E)SI – 2;
                (E)DI ← (E)DI – 2;
            FI;
        ELSE (* Doubleword comparison *)
            THEN IF DF = 0
                (E)SI ← (E)SI + 4;
                (E)DI ← (E)DI + 4;
            ELSE
                (E)SI ← (E)SI – 4;
                (E)DI ← (E)DI – 4;
            FI;
        FI;
FI;

.fi
.RE

.SH FLAGS AFFECTED
.PP
The CF, OF, SF, ZF, AF, and PF flags are set according to the temporary
result of the comparison.

.SH PROTECTED MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
	T{
If the DS, ES, FS, or GS register contains a NULL segment selector.
T}
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made while the current privilege level is 3.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH REAL\-ADDRESS MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
#SS	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH VIRTUAL\-8086 MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH COMPATIBILITY MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH 64\-BIT MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory address referencing the SS segment is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#GP(0)	T{
If the memory address is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made while the current privilege level is 3.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
