.nh
.TH "X86-FLDCW" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
FLDCW - LOAD X87 FPU CONTROL WORD
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode\fR	\fB\fCInstruction\fR	\fB\fC64\-Bit Mode\fR	\fB\fCCompat/Leg Mode\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
D9 /5	FLDCW m2byte	Valid	Valid	T{
Load FPU control word from m2byte.
T}
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Loads the 16\-bit source operand into the FPU control word. The source
operand is a memory location. This instruction is typically used to
establish or change the FPU’s mode of operation.

.PP
If one or more exception flags are set in the FPU status word prior to
loading a new FPU control word and the new control word unmasks one or
more of those exceptions, a floating\-point exception will be generated
upon execution of the next floating\-point instruction (except for the
no\-wait floating\-point instructions, see the section titled “Software
Exception Handling” in Chapter 8 of the Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual, Volume 1). To avoid raising
exceptions when changing FPU operating modes, clear any pending
exceptions (using the FCLEX or FNCLEX instruction) before loading the
new control word.

.PP
This instruction’s operation is the same in non\-64\-bit modes and 64\-bit
mode.

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
FPUControlWord ← SRC;

.fi
.RE

.SH FPU FLAGS AFFECTED
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
C0, C1, C2, C3	undefined.
.TE

.SH FLOATING\-POINT EXCEPTIONS
.PP
None; however, this operation might unmask a pending exception in the
FPU status word. That exception is then generated upon execution of the
next “waiting” floating\-point instruction.

.SH PROTECTED MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
	T{
If the DS, ES, FS, or GS register is used to access memory and it contains a NULL segment selector.
T}
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#NM	CR0.EM
[
bit 2
]
 or CR0.TS
[
bit 3
]
 = 1.
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made while the current privilege level is 3.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH REAL\-ADDRESS MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
#SS	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#NM	CR0.EM
[
bit 2
]
 or CR0.TS
[
bit 3
]
 = 1.
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH VIRTUAL\-8086 MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#NM	CR0.EM
[
bit 2
]
 or CR0.TS
[
bit 3
]
 = 1.
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH COMPATIBILITY MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH 64\-BIT MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory address referencing the SS segment is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#GP(0)	T{
If the memory address is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#NM	CR0.EM
[
bit 2
]
 or CR0.TS
[
bit 3
]
 = 1.
#MF	T{
If there is a pending x87 FPU exception.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made while the current privilege level is 3.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
