.nh
.TH "X86-VSCALEFSD" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
VSCALEFSD - SCALE SCALAR FLOAT64 VALUES WITH FLOAT64 VALUES
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode/Instruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64/32 bit Mode Support\fR	\fB\fCCPUID Feature Flag\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
T{
EVEX.LIG.66.0F38.W1 2D /r VSCALEFSD xmm1 {k1}{z}, xmm2, xmm3/m64{er}
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512F	T{
Scale the scalar double\-precision floating\-point values in xmm2 using the value from xmm3/m64. Under writemask k1.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
Op/En	Tuple Type	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
A	Tuple1 Scalar	ModRM:reg (w)	EVEX.vvvv (r)	ModRM:r/m (r)	NA
.TE

.SS Description
.PP
Performs a floating\-point scale of the packed double\-precision
floating\-point value in the first source operand by multiplying it by 2
power of the double\-precision floating\-point value in second source
operand.

.PP
The equation of this operation is given by:

.PP
xmm1 := xmm2*2floor(xmm3).

.PP
Floor(xmm3) means maximum integer value ≤ xmm3.

.PP
If the result cannot be represented in double precision, then the proper
overflow response (for positive scaling operand), or the proper
underflow response (for negative scaling operand) is issued. The
overflow and underflow responses are dependent on the rounding mode (for
IEEE\-compliant rounding), as well as on other settings in MXCSR
(exception mask bits, FTZ bit), and on the SAE bit.

.PP
EVEX encoded version: The first source operand is an XMM register. The
second source operand is an XMM register or a memory location. The
destination operand is an XMM register conditionally updated with
writemask k1.

.PP
Handling of special\-case input values are listed in Table 5\-31.

.SS Operation
.PP
.RS

.nf
SCALE(SRC1, SRC2)
{
    ; Check for denormal operands
TMP\_SRC2 ← SRC2
TMP\_SRC1 ← SRC1
IF (SRC2 is denormal AND MXCSR.DAZ) THEN TMP\_SRC2=0
IF (SRC1 is denormal AND MXCSR.DAZ) THEN TMP\_SRC1=0
/* SRC2 is a 64 bits floating\-point value */
DEST[63:0]←TMP\_SRC1[63:0] * POW(2, Floor(TMP\_SRC2[63:0]))
}

.fi
.RE

.SS VSCALEFSD (EVEX encoded version)
.PP
.RS

.nf
IF (EVEX.b= 1) and SRC2 *is a register*
    THEN
        SET\_RM(EVEX.RC);
    ELSE
        SET\_RM(MXCSR.RM);
FI;
IF k1[0] OR *no writemask*
    THEN DEST[63:0]←SCALE(SRC1[63:0], SRC2[63:0])
    ELSE
        IF *merging\-masking* ; merging\-masking
            THEN *DEST[63:0] remains unchanged*
            ELSE ; zeroing\-masking
                DEST[63:0] ← 0
        FI
FI;
DEST[127:64] ← SRC1[127:64]
DEST[MAXVL\-1:128] ← 0

.fi
.RE

.SS Intel C/C++ Compiler Intrinsic Equivalent
.PP
.RS

.nf
VSCALEFSD \_\_m128d \_mm\_scalef\_round\_sd(\_\_m128d a, \_\_m128d b, int);

VSCALEFSD \_\_m128d \_mm\_mask\_scalef\_round\_sd(\_\_m128d s, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m128d a, \_\_m128d b, int);

VSCALEFSD \_\_m128d \_mm\_maskz\_scalef\_round\_sd(\_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m128d a, \_\_m128d b, int);

.fi
.RE

.SS SIMD Floating\-Point Exceptions
.PP
Overflow, Underflow, Invalid, Precision, Denormal (for Src1).

.PP
Denormal is not reported for Src2.

.SS Other Exceptions
.PP
See Exceptions Type E3.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
