.nh
.TH "X86-CMPSS" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
CMPSS - COMPARE SCALAR SINGLE-PRECISION FLOATING-POINT VALUE
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode/Instruction\fR	\fB\fCOp / En\fR	\fB\fC64/32 bit Mode Support\fR	\fB\fCCPUID Feature Flag\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
T{
F3 0F C2 /r ib CMPSS xmm1, xmm2/m32, imm8
T}
	A	V/V	SSE	T{
Compare low single\-precision floating\-point value in xmm2/m32 and xmm1 using bits 2:0 of imm8 as comparison predicate.
T}
T{
VEX.LIG.F3.0F.WIG C2 /r ib VCMPSS xmm1, xmm2, xmm3/m32, imm8
T}
	B	V/V	AVX	T{
Compare low single\-precision floating\-point value in xmm3/m32 and xmm2 using bits 4:0 of imm8 as comparison predicate.
T}
T{
EVEX.LIG.F3.0F.W0 C2 /r ib VCMPSS k1 {k2}, xmm2, xmm3/m32{sae}, imm8
T}
	C	V/V	AVX512F	T{
Compare low single\-precision floating\-point value in xmm3/m32 and xmm2 using bits 4:0 of imm8 as comparison predicate with writemask k2 and leave the result in mask register k1.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
Op/En	Tuple Type	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
A	NA	ModRM:reg (r, w)	ModRM:r/m (r)	Imm8	NA
B	NA	ModRM:reg (w)	VEX.vvvv	ModRM:r/m (r)	Imm8
C	Tuple1 Scalar	ModRM:reg (w)	EVEX.vvvv	ModRM:r/m (r)	Imm8
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Compares the low single\-precision floating\-point values in the second
source operand and the first source operand and returns the results of
the comparison to the destination operand. The comparison predicate
operand (immediate operand) specifies the type of comparison performed.

.PP
128\-bit Legacy SSE version: The first source and destination operand
(first operand) is an XMM register. The second source operand (second
operand) can be an XMM register or 32\-bit memory location. Bits
(MAXVL\-1:32) of the corresponding YMM destination register remain
unchanged. The comparison result is a doubleword mask of all 1s
(comparison true) or all 0s (comparison false).

.PP
VEX.128 encoded version: The first source operand (second operand) is an
XMM register. The second source operand (third operand) can be an XMM
register or a 32\-bit memory location. The result is stored in the low 32
bits of the destination operand; bits 128:32 of the destination operand
are copied from the first source operand. Bits (MAXVL\-1:128) of the
destination ZMM register are zeroed. The comparison result is a
doubleword mask of all 1s (comparison true) or all 0s (comparison
false).

.PP
EVEX encoded version: The first source operand (second operand) is an
XMM register. The second source operand can be a XMM register or a
32\-bit memory location. The destination operand (first operand) is an
opmask register. The comparison result is a single mask bit of 1
(comparison true) or 0 (comparison false), written to the destination
starting from the LSB according to the writemask k2. Bits
(MAX\_KL\-1:128) of the destination register are cleared.

.PP
The comparison predicate operand is an 8\-bit immediate:

.RS
.IP \(bu 2
For instructions encoded using the VEX prefix, bits 4:0 define the
type of comparison to be performed (see Table 3\-1). Bits 5 through 7
of the immediate are reserved.
.IP \(bu 2
For instruction encodings that do not use VEX prefix, bits 2:0
define the type of comparison to be made (see the first 8 rows of
Table 3\-1). Bits 3 through 7 of the immediate are reserved.

.RE

.PP
The unordered relationship is true when at least one of the two source
operands being compared is a NaN; the ordered relationship is true when
neither source operand is a NaN.

.PP
A subsequent computational instruction that uses the mask result in the
destination operand as an input operand will not generate an exception,
because a mask of all 0s corresponds to a floating\-point value of +0.0
and a mask of all 1s corresponds to a QNaN.

.PP
Note that processors with “CPUID.1H:ECX.AVX =0” do not implement the
“greater\-than”, “greater\-than\-or\-equal”, “not\-greater than”, and
“not\-greater\-than\-or\-equal relations” predicates. These comparisons can
be made either

.PP
by using the inverse relationship (that is, use the
“not\-less\-than\-or\-equal” to make a “greater\-than” comparison) or by
using software emulation. When using software emulation, the program
must swap the operands (copying registers when necessary to protect the
data that will now be in the destination), and then perform the compare
using a different predicate. The predicate to be used for these
emulations is listed in the first 8 rows of Table 3\-7 (Intel 64 and
IA\-32 Architectures Software Developer’s Manual Volume 2A) under the
heading Emulation.

.PP
Compilers and assemblers may implement the following two\-operand
pseudo\-ops in addition to the three\-operand CMPSS instruction, for
processors with “CPUID.1H:ECX.AVX =0”. See Table 3\-8. Compiler should
treat reserved Imm8 values as illegal syntax.

.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
\fB\fCPseudo\-Op\fR	\fB\fCCMPSS Implementation\fR
CMPEQSS xmm1, xmm2	CMPSS xmm1, xmm2, 0
CMPLTSS xmm1, xmm2	CMPSS xmm1, xmm2, 1
CMPLESS xmm1, xmm2	CMPSS xmm1, xmm2, 2
CMPUNORDSS xmm1, xmm2	CMPSS xmm1, xmm2, 3
CMPNEQSS xmm1, xmm2	CMPSS xmm1, xmm2, 4
CMPNLTSS xmm1, xmm2	CMPSS xmm1, xmm2, 5
CMPNLESS xmm1, xmm2	CMPSS xmm1, xmm2, 6
CMPORDSS xmm1, xmm2	CMPSS xmm1, xmm2, 7
.TE

.PP
Table 3\-8. Pseudo\-Op and CMPSS Implementation

.PP
The greater\-than relations that the processor does not implement require
more than one instruction to emulate in software and therefore should
not be implemented as pseudo\-ops. (For these, the programmer should
reverse the operands of the corresponding less than relations and use
move instructions to ensure that the mask is moved to the correct
destination register and that the source operand is left intact.)

.PP
Processors with “CPUID.1H:ECX.AVX =1” implement the full complement of
32 predicates shown in Table 3\-9.

.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
\fB\fCPseudo\-Op\fR	\fB\fCCMPSS Implementation\fR
VCMPEQSS reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSS reg1, reg2, reg3, 0
VCMPLTSS reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSS reg1, reg2, reg3, 1
VCMPLESS reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSS reg1, reg2, reg3, 2
VCMPUNORDSS reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSS reg1, reg2, reg3, 3
VCMPNEQSS reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSS reg1, reg2, reg3, 4
VCMPNLTSS reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSS reg1, reg2, reg3, 5
VCMPNLESS reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSS reg1, reg2, reg3, 6
VCMPORDSS reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSS reg1, reg2, reg3, 7
VCMPEQ\_UQSS reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSS reg1, reg2, reg3, 8
VCMPNGESS reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSS reg1, reg2, reg3, 9
VCMPNGTSS reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSS reg1, reg2, reg3, 0AH
VCMPFALSESS reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSS reg1, reg2, reg3, 0BH
VCMPNEQ\_OQSS reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSS reg1, reg2, reg3, 0CH
VCMPGESS reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSS reg1, reg2, reg3, 0DH
.TE

.PP
Table 3\-9. Pseudo\-Op and VCMPSS Implementation

.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
\fB\fCPseudo\-Op\fR	\fB\fCCMPSS Implementation\fR
VCMPGTSS reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSS reg1, reg2, reg3, 0EH
VCMPTRUESS reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSS reg1, reg2, reg3, 0FH
VCMPEQ\_OSSS reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSS reg1, reg2, reg3, 10H
VCMPLT\_OQSS reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSS reg1, reg2, reg3, 11H
VCMPLE\_OQSS reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSS reg1, reg2, reg3, 12H
VCMPUNORD\_SSS reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSS reg1, reg2, reg3, 13H
VCMPNEQ\_USSS reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSS reg1, reg2, reg3, 14H
VCMPNLT\_UQSS reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSS reg1, reg2, reg3, 15H
VCMPNLE\_UQSS reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSS reg1, reg2, reg3, 16H
VCMPORD\_SSS reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSS reg1, reg2, reg3, 17H
VCMPEQ\_USSS reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSS reg1, reg2, reg3, 18H
VCMPNGE\_UQSS reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSS reg1, reg2, reg3, 19H
VCMPNGT\_UQSS reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSS reg1, reg2, reg3, 1AH
VCMPFALSE\_OSSS reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSS reg1, reg2, reg3, 1BH
VCMPNEQ\_OSSS reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSS reg1, reg2, reg3, 1CH
VCMPGE\_OQSS reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSS reg1, reg2, reg3, 1DH
VCMPGT\_OQSS reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSS reg1, reg2, reg3, 1EH
VCMPTRUE\_USSS reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSS reg1, reg2, reg3, 1FH
.TE

.PP
Table 3\-9. Pseudo\-Op and VCMPSS Implementation

.PP
Software should ensure VCMPSS is encoded with VEX.L=0. Encoding VCMPSS
with VEX.L=1 may encounter unpredictable behavior across different
processor generations.

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
CASE (COMPARISON PREDICATE) OF
    0: OP3←EQ\_OQ; OP5←EQ\_OQ;
    1: OP3←LT\_OS; OP5←LT\_OS;
    2: OP3←LE\_OS; OP5←LE\_OS;
    3: OP3←UNORD\_Q; OP5←UNORD\_Q;
    4: OP3←NEQ\_UQ; OP5←NEQ\_UQ;
    5: OP3←NLT\_US; OP5←NLT\_US;
    6: OP3←NLE\_US; OP5←NLE\_US;
    7: OP3←ORD\_Q; OP5←ORD\_Q;
    8: OP5←EQ\_UQ;
    9: OP5←NGE\_US;
    10: OP5←NGT\_US;
    11: OP5←FALSE\_OQ;
    12: OP5←NEQ\_OQ;
    13: OP5←GE\_OS;
    14: OP5←GT\_OS;
    15: OP5←TRUE\_UQ;
    16: OP5←EQ\_OS;
    17: OP5←LT\_OQ;
    18: OP5←LE\_OQ;
    19: OP5←UNORD\_S;
    20: OP5←NEQ\_US;
    21: OP5←NLT\_UQ;
    22: OP5←NLE\_UQ;
    23: OP5←ORD\_S;
    24: OP5←EQ\_US;
    25: OP5←NGE\_UQ;
    26: OP5←NGT\_UQ;
    27: OP5←FALSE\_OS;
    28: OP5←NEQ\_OS;
    29: OP5←GE\_OQ;
    30: OP5←GT\_OQ;
    31: OP5←TRUE\_US;
    DEFAULT: Reserved
ESAC;

.fi
.RE

.SS VCMPSS (EVEX encoded version)
.PP
.RS

.nf
CMP0←SRC1[31:0] OP5 SRC2[31:0];
IF k2[0] or *no writemask*
    THEN IF CMP0 = TRUE
        THEN DEST[0]←1;
        ELSE DEST[0]←0; FI;
    ELSE DEST[0]←0
            ; zeroing\-masking only
FI;
DEST[MAX\_KL\-1:1] ← 0

.fi
.RE

.SS CMPSS (128\-bit Legacy SSE version)
.PP
.RS

.nf
CMP0←DEST[31:0] OP3 SRC[31:0];
IF CMP0 = TRUE
THEN DEST[31:0]←FFFFFFFFH;
ELSE DEST[31:0]←00000000H; FI;
DEST[MAXVL\-1:32] (Unmodified)

.fi
.RE

.SS VCMPSS (VEX.128 encoded version)
.PP
.RS

.nf
CMP0←SRC1[31:0] OP5 SRC2[31:0];
IF CMP0 = TRUE
THEN DEST[31:0]←FFFFFFFFH;
ELSE DEST[31:0]←00000000H; FI;
DEST[127:32] ←SRC1[127:32]
DEST[MAXVL\-1:128] ←0

.fi
.RE

.SH INTEL C/C++ COMPILER INTRINSIC EQUIVALENT
.PP
.RS

.nf
VCMPSS \_\_mmask8 \_mm\_cmp\_ss\_mask( \_\_m128 a, \_\_m128 b, int imm);

VCMPSS \_\_mmask8 \_mm\_cmp\_round\_ss\_mask( \_\_m128 a, \_\_m128 b, int imm, int sae);

VCMPSS \_\_mmask8 \_mm\_mask\_cmp\_ss\_mask( \_\_mmask8 k1, \_\_m128 a, \_\_m128 b, int imm);

VCMPSS \_\_mmask8 \_mm\_mask\_cmp\_round\_ss\_mask( \_\_mmask8 k1, \_\_m128 a, \_\_m128 b, int imm, int sae);

(V)CMPSS \_\_m128 \_mm\_cmp\_ss(\_\_m128 a, \_\_m128 b, const int imm)

.fi
.RE

.SH SIMD FLOATING\-POINT EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Invalid if SNaN operand, Invalid if QNaN and predicate as listed in
Table 3\-1, Denormal.

.SH OTHER EXCEPTIONS
.PP
VEX\-encoded instructions, see Exceptions Type 3.

.PP
EVEX\-encoded instructions, see Exceptions Type E3.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
