.nh
.TH "X86-DIV" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
DIV - UNSIGNED DIVIDE
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode\fR	\fB\fCInstruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64\-Bit Mode\fR	\fB\fCCompat/Leg Mode\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
F6 /6	DIV r/m8	M	Valid	Valid	T{
Unsigned divide AX by r/m8, with result stored in AL ← Quotient, AH ← Remainder.
T}
REX + F6 /6	DIV r/m8*	M	Valid	N.E.	T{
Unsigned divide AX by r/m8, with result stored in AL ← Quotient, AH ← Remainder.
T}
F7 /6	DIV r/m16	M	Valid	Valid	T{
Unsigned divide DX:AX by r/m16, with result stored in AX ← Quotient, DX ← Remainder.
T}
F7 /6	DIV r/m32	M	Valid	Valid	T{
Unsigned divide EDX:EAX by r/m32, with result stored in EAX ← Quotient, EDX ← Remainder.
T}
REX.W + F7 /6	DIV r/m64	M	Valid	N.E.	T{
Unsigned divide RDX:RAX by r/m64, with result stored in RAX ← Quotient, RDX ← Remainder.
T}
.TE

.PP
.RS

.PP
*
In64\-bitmode,r/m8cannotbeencodedtoaccessthefollowingbyteregistersifaREXprefixisused:AH,BH,CH,DH.

.RE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
Op/En	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
M	ModRM:r/m (w)	NA	NA	NA
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Divides unsigned the value in the AX, DX:AX, EDX:EAX, or RDX:RAX
registers (dividend) by the source operand (divisor) and stores the
result in the AX (AH:AL), DX:AX, EDX:EAX, or RDX:RAX registers. The
source operand can be a general\-purpose register or a memory location.
The action of this instruction depends on the operand size
(dividend/divisor). Division using 64\-bit operand is available only in
64\-bit mode.

.PP
Non\-integral results are truncated (chopped) towards 0. The remainder is
always less than the divisor in magnitude. Overflow is indicated with
the #DE (divide error) exception rather than with the CF flag.

.PP
In 64\-bit mode, the instruction’s default operation size is 32 bits. Use
of the REX.R prefix permits access to additional registers (R8\-R15). Use
of the REX.W prefix promotes operation to 64 bits. In 64\-bit mode when
REX.W is applied, the instruction divides the unsigned value in RDX:RAX
by the source operand and stores the quotient in RAX, the remainder in
RDX.

.PP
See the summary chart at the beginning of this section for encoding data
and limits. See Table 3\-15.

.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
\fB\fCOperand Size\fR	\fB\fCDividend\fR	\fB\fCDivisor\fR	\fB\fCQuotient\fR	\fB\fCRemainder\fR	\fB\fCMaximum Quotient\fR
Word/byte	AX	r/m8	AL	AH	255
Doubleword/word	DX:AX	r/m16	AX	DX	65,535
Quadword/doubleword	EDX:EAX	r/m32	EAX	EDX	232 − 1
Doublequadword/quadword	RDX:RAX	r/m64	RAX	RDX	264 − 1
.TE

.PP
Table 3\-15. DIV Action

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
IFSRC =0
    THEN #DE; FI; (* Divide Error *)
IF OperandSize = 8 (* Word/Byte Operation *)
    THEN
        temp ← AX / SRC;
        IF temp > FFH
            THEN #DE; (* Divide error *)
            ELSE
                AL ← temp;
                AH ← AX MOD SRC;
        FI;
    ELSE IF OperandSize = 16 (* Doubleword/word operation *)
        THEN
            temp ← DX:AX / SRC;
            IF temp > FFFFH
                THEN #DE; (* Divide error *)
            ELSE
                AX ← temp;
                DX ← DX:AX MOD SRC;
            FI;
        FI;
    ELSE IF Operandsize = 32 (* Quadword/doubleword operation *)
        THEN
            temp ← EDX:EAX / SRC;
            IF temp > FFFFFFFFH
                THEN #DE; (* Divide error *)
            ELSE
                EAX ← temp;
                EDX ← EDX:EAX MOD SRC;
            FI;
        FI;
    ELSE IF 64\-Bit Mode and Operandsize = 64 (* Doublequadword/quadword operation *)
        THEN
            temp ← RDX:RAX / SRC;
            IF temp > FFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFH
                THEN #DE; (* Divide error *)
            ELSE
                RAX ← temp;
                RDX ← RDX:RAX MOD SRC;
            FI;
        FI;
FI;

.fi
.RE

.SH FLAGS AFFECTED
.PP
The CF, OF, SF, ZF, AF, and PF flags are undefined.

.SH PROTECTED MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#DE	T{
If the source operand (divisor) is 0
T}
	T{
If the quotient is too large for the designated register.
T}
#GP(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
	T{
If the DS, ES, FS, or GS register contains a NULL segment selector.
T}
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made while the current privilege level is 3.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH REAL\-ADDRESS MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#DE	T{
If the source operand (divisor) is 0.
T}
	T{
If the quotient is too large for the designated register.
T}
#GP	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
	T{
If the DS, ES, FS, or GS register contains a NULL segment selector.
T}
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH VIRTUAL\-8086 MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#DE	T{
If the source operand (divisor) is 0.
T}
	T{
If the quotient is too large for the designated register.
T}
#GP(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
#SS	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH COMPATIBILITY MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH 64\-BIT MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory address referencing the SS segment is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#GP(0)	T{
If the memory address is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#DE	T{
If the source operand (divisor) is 0
T}
	T{
If the quotient is too large for the designated register.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made while the current privilege level is 3.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
