.nh
.TH "X86-MINPS" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
MINPS - MINIMUM OF PACKED SINGLE-PRECISION FLOATING-POINT VALUES
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode/Instruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64/32 bit Mode Support\fR	\fB\fCCPUID Feature Flag\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
T{
NP 0F 5D /r MINPS xmm1, xmm2/m128
T}
	A	V/V	SSE	T{
Return the minimum single\-precision floating\-point values between xmm1 and xmm2/mem.
T}
T{
VEX.128.0F.WIG 5D /r VMINPS xmm1, xmm2, xmm3/m128
T}
	B	V/V	AVX	T{
Return the minimum single\-precision floating\-point values between xmm2 and xmm3/mem.
T}
T{
VEX.256.0F.WIG 5D /r VMINPS ymm1, ymm2, ymm3/m256
T}
	B	V/V	AVX	T{
Return the minimum single double\-precision floating\-point values between ymm2 and ymm3/mem.
T}
T{
EVEX.128.0F.W0 5D /r VMINPS xmm1 {k1}{z}, xmm2, xmm3/m128/m32bcst
T}
	C	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512F	T{
Return the minimum packed single\-precision floating\-point values between xmm2 and xmm3/m128/m32bcst and store result in xmm1 subject to writemask k1.
T}
T{
EVEX.256.0F.W0 5D /r VMINPS ymm1 {k1}{z}, ymm2, ymm3/m256/m32bcst
T}
	C	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512F	T{
Return the minimum packed single\-precision floating\-point values between ymm2 and ymm3/m256/m32bcst and store result in ymm1 subject to writemask k1.
T}
T{
EVEX.512.0F.W0 5D /r VMINPS zmm1 {k1}{z}, zmm2, zmm3/m512/m32bcst{sae}
T}
	C	V/V	AVX512F	T{
Return the minimum packed single\-precision floating\-point values between zmm2 and zmm3/m512/m32bcst and store result in zmm1 subject to writemask k1.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
Op/En	Tuple Type	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
A	NA	ModRM:reg (r, w)	ModRM:r/m (r)	NA	NA
B	NA	ModRM:reg (w)	VEX.vvvv	ModRM:r/m (r)	NA
C	Full	ModRM:reg (w)	EVEX.vvvv	ModRM:r/m (r)	NA
.TE

.SS Description
.PP
Performs a SIMD compare of the packed single\-precision floating\-point
values in the first source operand and the second source operand and
returns the minimum value for each pair of values to the destination
operand.

.PP
If the values being compared are both 0.0s (of either sign), the value
in the second operand (source operand) is returned. If a value in the
second operand is an SNaN, then SNaN is forwarded unchanged to the
destination (that is, a QNaN version of the SNaN is not returned).

.PP
If only one value is a NaN (SNaN or QNaN) for this instruction, the
second operand (source operand), either a NaN or a valid floating\-point
value, is written to the result. If instead of this behavior, it is
required that the NaN source operand (from either the first or second
operand) be returned, the action of MINPS can be emulated using a
sequence of instructions, such as, a comparison followed by AND, ANDN
and OR.

.PP
EVEX encoded versions: The first source operand (the second operand) is
a ZMM/YMM/XMM register. The second source operand can be a ZMM/YMM/XMM
register, a 512/256/128\-bit memory location or a 512/256/128\-bit vector
broadcasted from a 32\-bit memory location. The destination operand is a
ZMM/YMM/XMM register conditionally updated with writemask k1.

.PP
VEX.256 encoded version: The first source operand is a YMM register. The
second source operand can be a YMM register or a 256\-bit memory
location. The destination operand is a YMM register. The upper bits
(MAXVL\-1:256) of the corresponding ZMM register destination are zeroed.

.PP
VEX.128 encoded version: The first source operand is a XMM register. The
second source operand can be a XMM register or a 128\-bit memory
location. The destination operand is a XMM register. The upper bits
(MAXVL\-1:128) of the corresponding ZMM register destination are zeroed.

.PP
128\-bit Legacy SSE version: The second source can be an XMM register or
an 128\-bit memory location. The destination is not distinct from the
first source XMM register and the upper bits (MAXVL\-1:128) of the
corresponding ZMM register destination are unmodified.

.SS Operation
.PP
.RS

.nf
MIN(SRC1, SRC2)
{
    IF ((SRC1 = 0.0) and (SRC2 = 0.0)) THEN DEST ←SRC2;
        ELSE IF (SRC1 = SNaN) THEN DEST ←SRC2; FI;
        ELSE IF (SRC2 = SNaN) THEN DEST ←SRC2; FI;
        ELSE IF (SRC1 < SRC2) THEN DEST ←SRC1;
        ELSE DEST←SRC2;
    FI;
}

.fi
.RE

.SS VMINPS (EVEX encoded version)
.PP
.RS

.nf
(KL, VL) = (4, 128), (8, 256), (16, 512)
FOR j←0 TO KL\-1
    i←j * 32
    IF k1[j] OR *no writemask*
        THEN
            IF (EVEX.b = 1) AND (SRC2 *is memory*)
                THEN
                    DEST[i+31:i]←MIN(SRC1[i+31:i], SRC2[31:0])
                ELSE
                    DEST[i+31:i]←MIN(SRC1[i+31:i], SRC2[i+31:i])
            FI;
            ELSE
            IF *merging\-masking* ; merging\-masking
                THEN *DEST[i+31:i] remains unchanged*
                ELSE DEST[i+31:i]←0
                        ; zeroing\-masking
            FI
    FI;
ENDFOR
DEST[MAXVL\-1:VL] ← 0

.fi
.RE

.SS VMINPS (VEX.256 encoded version)
.PP
.RS

.nf
DEST[31:0]←MIN(SRC1[31:0], SRC2[31:0])
DEST[63:32]←MIN(SRC1[63:32], SRC2[63:32])
DEST[95:64]←MIN(SRC1[95:64], SRC2[95:64])
DEST[127:96]←MIN(SRC1[127:96], SRC2[127:96])
DEST[159:128]←MIN(SRC1[159:128], SRC2[159:128])
DEST[191:160]←MIN(SRC1[191:160], SRC2[191:160])
DEST[223:192]←MIN(SRC1[223:192], SRC2[223:192])
DEST[255:224]←MIN(SRC1[255:224], SRC2[255:224])

.fi
.RE

.SS VMINPS (VEX.128 encoded version)
.PP
.RS

.nf
DEST[31:0]←MIN(SRC1[31:0], SRC2[31:0])
DEST[63:32]←MIN(SRC1[63:32], SRC2[63:32])
DEST[95:64]←MIN(SRC1[95:64], SRC2[95:64])
DEST[127:96]←MIN(SRC1[127:96], SRC2[127:96])
DEST[MAXVL\-1:128] ←0

.fi
.RE

.SS MINPS (128\-bit Legacy SSE version)
.PP
.RS

.nf
DEST[31:0]←MIN(SRC1[31:0], SRC2[31:0])
DEST[63:32]←MIN(SRC1[63:32], SRC2[63:32])
DEST[95:64]←MIN(SRC1[95:64], SRC2[95:64])
DEST[127:96]←MIN(SRC1[127:96], SRC2[127:96])
DEST[MAXVL\-1:128] (Unmodified)

.fi
.RE

.SS Intel C/C++ Compiler Intrinsic Equivalent
.PP
.RS

.nf
VMINPS \_\_m512 \_mm512\_min\_ps( \_\_m512 a, \_\_m512 b);

VMINPS \_\_m512 \_mm512\_mask\_min\_ps(\_\_m512 s, \_\_mmask16 k, \_\_m512 a, \_\_m512 b);

VMINPS \_\_m512 \_mm512\_maskz\_min\_ps( \_\_mmask16 k, \_\_m512 a, \_\_m512 b);

VMINPS \_\_m512 \_mm512\_min\_round\_ps( \_\_m512 a, \_\_m512 b, int);

VMINPS \_\_m512 \_mm512\_mask\_min\_round\_ps(\_\_m512 s, \_\_mmask16 k, \_\_m512 a, \_\_m512 b, int);

VMINPS \_\_m512 \_mm512\_maskz\_min\_round\_ps( \_\_mmask16 k, \_\_m512 a, \_\_m512 b, int);

VMINPS \_\_m256 \_mm256\_mask\_min\_ps(\_\_m256 s, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m256 a, \_\_m256 b);

VMINPS \_\_m256 \_mm256\_maskz\_min\_ps( \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m256 a, \_\_m25 b);

VMINPS \_\_m128 \_mm\_mask\_min\_ps(\_\_m128 s, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m128 a, \_\_m128 b);

VMINPS \_\_m128 \_mm\_maskz\_min\_ps( \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m128 a, \_\_m128 b);

VMINPS \_\_m256 \_mm256\_min\_ps (\_\_m256 a, \_\_m256 b);

MINPS \_\_m128 \_mm\_min\_ps (\_\_m128 a, \_\_m128 b);

.fi
.RE

.SS SIMD Floating\-Point Exceptions
.PP
Invalid (including QNaN Source Operand), Denormal

.SS Other Exceptions
.PP
Non\-EVEX\-encoded instruction, see Exceptions Type 2.

.PP
EVEX\-encoded instruction, see Exceptions Type E2.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
