.nh
.TH "X86-FINCSTP" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
FINCSTP - INCREMENT STACK-TOP POINTER
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode\fR	\fB\fCInstruction\fR	\fB\fC64\-Bit Mode\fR	\fB\fCCompat/Leg Mode\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
D9 F7	FINCSTP	Valid	Valid	T{
Increment the TOP field in the FPU status register.
T}
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Adds one to the TOP field of the FPU status word (increments the
top\-of\-stack pointer). If the TOP field contains a 7, it is set to 0.
The effect of this instruction is to rotate the stack by one position.
The contents of the FPU data registers and tag register are not
affected. This operation is not equivalent to popping the stack, because
the tag for the previous top\-of\-stack register is not marked empty.

.PP
This instruction’s operation is the same in non\-64\-bit modes and 64\-bit
mode.

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
IF TOP = 7
    THEN TOP ← 0;
    ELSE TOP ← TOP + 1;
FI;

.fi
.RE

.SH FPU FLAGS AFFECTED
.PP
The C1 flag is set to 0. The C0, C2, and C3 flags are undefined.

.SH FLOATING\-POINT EXCEPTIONS
.PP
None

.SH PROTECTED MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#NM	CR0.EM
[
bit 2
]
 or CR0.TS
[
bit 3
]
 = 1.
#MF	T{
If there is a pending x87 FPU exception.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH REAL\-ADDRESS MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH VIRTUAL\-8086 MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH COMPATIBILITY MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH 64\-BIT MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
