.nh
.TH "X86-CMP" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
CMP - COMPARE TWO OPERANDS
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode\fR	\fB\fCInstruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64\-Bit Mode\fR	\fB\fCCompat/Leg Mode\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
3C ib	CMP AL, imm8	I	Valid	Valid	Compare imm8 with AL.
3D iw	CMP AX, imm16	I	Valid	Valid	Compare imm16 with AX.
3D id	CMP EAX, imm32	I	Valid	Valid	Compare imm32 with EAX.
REX.W + 3D id	CMP RAX, imm32	I	Valid	N.E.	T{
Compare imm32 sign\-extended to 64\-bits with RAX.
T}
80 /7 ib	CMP r/m8, imm8	MI	Valid	Valid	Compare r/m8.
REX + 80 /7 ib	CMP , imm8	MI	Valid	N.E.	Compare r/m8.
81 /7 iw	CMP r/m16, imm16	MI	Valid	Valid	Compare r/m16.
81 /7 id	CMP r/m32, imm32	MI	Valid	Valid	Compare r/m32.
REX.W + 81 /7 id	CMP r/m64, imm32	MI	Valid	N.E.	Compare r/m64.
83 /7 ib	CMP r/m16, imm8	MI	Valid	Valid	Compare r/m16.
83 /7 ib	CMP r/m32, imm8	MI	Valid	Valid	Compare r/m32.
REX.W + 83 /7 ib	CMP r/m64, imm8	MI	Valid	N.E.	Compare r/m64.
38 /r	CMP r/m8, r8	MR	Valid	Valid	Compare r/m8.
REX + 38 /r	CMP r/m8*	MR	Valid	N.E.	Compare r/m8.
39 /r	CMP r/m16, r16	MR	Valid	Valid	Compare r/m16.
39 /r	CMP r/m32, r32	MR	Valid	Valid	Compare r/m32.
REX.W + 39 /r	CMP r/m64,r64	MR	Valid	N.E.	Compare r/m64.
3A /r	CMP r8, r/m8	RM	Valid	Valid	Compare r8.
REX + 3A /r	CMP r8*	RM	Valid	N.E.	Compare r/m8 with r8.
3B /r	CMP r16, r/m16	RM	Valid	Valid	Compare r16.
3B /r	CMP r32, r/m32	RM	Valid	Valid	Compare r32.
REX.W + 3B /r	CMP r64, r/m64	RM	Valid	N.E.	Compare r64.
.TE

.PP
.RS

.PP
*
In64\-bitmode,r/m8cannotbeencodedtoaccessthefollowingbyteregistersifaREXprefixisused:AH,BH,CH,DH.

.RE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
Op/En	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
RM	ModRM:reg (r)	ModRM:r/m (r)	NA	NA
MR	ModRM:r/m (r)	ModRM:reg (r)	NA	NA
MI	ModRM:r/m (r)	imm8/16/32	NA	NA
I	AL/AX/EAX/RAX (r)	imm8/16/32	NA	NA
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Compares the first source operand with the second source operand and
sets the status flags in the EFLAGS register according to the results.
The comparison is performed by subtracting the second operand from the
first operand and then setting the status flags in the same manner as
the SUB instruction. When an immediate value is used as an operand, it
is sign\-extended to the length of the first operand.

.PP
The condition codes used by the JIntel® 64 and IA\-32 Architectures
Software Developer’s Manual, Volume 1, shows the relationship of the
status flags and the condition codes.

.PP
In 64\-bit mode, the instruction’s default operation size is 32 bits. Use
of the REX.R prefix permits access to additional registers (R8\-R15). Use
of the REX.W prefix promotes operation to 64 bits. See the summary chart
at the beginning of this section for encoding data and limits.

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
temp ← SRC1 − SignExtend(SRC2);
ModifyStatusFlags; (* Modify status flags in the same manner as the SUB instruction*)

.fi
.RE

.SH FLAGS AFFECTED
.PP
The CF, OF, SF, ZF, AF, and PF flags are set according to the result.

.SH PROTECTED MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
	T{
If the DS, ES, FS, or GS register contains a NULL segment selector.
T}
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made while the current privilege level is 3.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH REAL\-ADDRESS MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
#SS	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
.TE

.SH VIRTUAL\-8086 MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH COMPATIBILITY MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH 64\-BIT MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory address referencing the SS segment is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#GP(0)	T{
If the memory address is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made while the current privilege level is 3.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
