.nh
.TH "X86-PMULDQ" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
PMULDQ - MULTIPLY PACKED DOUBLEWORD INTEGERS
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode/Instruction\fR	\fB\fCOp / En\fR	\fB\fC64/32 bit Mode Support\fR	\fB\fCCPUID Feature Flag\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
T{
66 0F 38 28 /r PMULDQ xmm1, xmm2/m128
T}
	A	V/V	SSE4\_1	T{
Multiply packed signed doubleword integers in xmm1 by packed signed doubleword integers in xmm2/m128, and store the quadword results in xmm1.
T}
T{
VEX.128.66.0F38.WIG 28 /r VPMULDQ xmm1, xmm2, xmm3/m128
T}
	B	V/V	AVX	T{
Multiply packed signed doubleword integers in xmm2 by packed signed doubleword integers in xmm3/m128, and store the quadword results in xmm1.
T}
T{
VEX.256.66.0F38.WIG 28 /r VPMULDQ ymm1, ymm2, ymm3/m256
T}
	B	V/V	AVX2	T{
Multiply packed signed doubleword integers in ymm2 by packed signed doubleword integers in ymm3/m256, and store the quadword results in ymm1.
T}
T{
EVEX.128.66.0F38.W1 28 /r VPMULDQ xmm1 {k1}{z}, xmm2, xmm3/m128/m64bcst
T}
	C	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512F	T{
Multiply packed signed doubleword integers in xmm2 by packed signed doubleword integers in xmm3/m128/m64bcst, and store the quadword results in xmm1 using writemask k1.
T}
T{
EVEX.256.66.0F38.W1 28 /r VPMULDQ ymm1 {k1}{z}, ymm2, ymm3/m256/m64bcst
T}
	C	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512F	T{
Multiply packed signed doubleword integers in ymm2 by packed signed doubleword integers in ymm3/m256/m64bcst, and store the quadword results in ymm1 using writemask k1.
T}
T{
EVEX.512.66.0F38.W1 28 /r VPMULDQ zmm1 {k1}{z}, zmm2, zmm3/m512/m64bcst
T}
	C	V/V	AVX512F	T{
Multiply packed signed doubleword integers in zmm2 by packed signed doubleword integers in zmm3/m512/m64bcst, and store the quadword results in zmm1 using writemask k1.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
Op/En	Tuple Type	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
A	NA	ModRM:reg (r, w)	ModRM:r/m (r)	NA	NA
B	NA	ModRM:reg (w)	VEX.vvvv (r)	ModRM:r/m (r)	NA
C	Full	ModRM:reg (w)	EVEX.vvvv (r)	ModRM:r/m (r)	NA
.TE

.SS Description
.PP
Multiplies packed signed doubleword integers in the even\-numbered
(zero\-based reference) elements of the first source operand with the
packed signed doubleword integers in the corresponding elements of the
second source operand and stores packed signed quadword results in the
destination operand.

.PP
128\-bit Legacy SSE version: The input signed doubleword integers are
taken from the even\-numbered elements of the source operands, i.e. the
first (low) and third doubleword element. For 128\-bit memory operands,
128 bits are fetched from memory, but only the first and third
doublewords are used in the computation. The first source operand and
the destination XMM operand is the same. The second source operand can
be an XMM register or 128\-bit memory location. Bits (MAXVL\-1:128) of the
corresponding destination register remain unchanged.

.PP
VEX.128 encoded version: The input signed doubleword integers are taken
from the even\-numbered elements of the source operands, i.e., the first
(low) and third doubleword element. For 128\-bit memory operands, 128
bits are fetched from memory, but only the first and third doublewords
are used in the computation.The first source operand and the destination
operand are XMM registers. The second source operand can be an XMM
register or 128\-bit memory location. Bits (MAXVL\-1:128) of the
corresponding destination register are zeroed.

.PP
VEX.256 encoded version: The input signed doubleword integers are taken
from the even\-numbered elements of the source operands, i.e. the first,
3rd, 5th, 7th doubleword element. For 256\-bit memory operands, 256 bits
are fetched from memory, but only the four even\-numbered doublewords are
used in the computation. The first source operand and the destination
operand are YMM registers. The second source operand can be a YMM
register or 256\-bit memory location. Bits (MAXVL\-1:256) of the
corresponding destination ZMM register are zeroed.

.PP
EVEX encoded version: The input signed doubleword integers are taken
from the even\-numbered elements of the source operands. The first source
operand is a ZMM/YMM/XMM registers. The second source operand can be an
ZMM/YMM/XMM register, a 512/256/128\-bit memory location or a
512/256/128\-bit vector broadcasted from a 64\-bit memory location. The
destination is a ZMM/YMM/XMM register, and updated according to the
writemask at 64\-bit granularity.

.SS Operation
.SS VPMULDQ (EVEX encoded versions)
.PP
.RS

.nf
(KL, VL) = (2, 128), (4, 256), (8, 512)
FOR j←0 TO KL\-1
    i←j * 64
    IF k1[j] OR *no writemask*
        THEN
            IF (EVEX.b = 1) AND (SRC2 *is memory*)
                THEN DEST[i+63:i]←SignExtend64( SRC1[i+31:i]) * SignExtend64( SRC2[31:0])
                ELSE DEST[i+63:i]←SignExtend64( SRC1[i+31:i]) * SignExtend64( SRC2[i+31:i])
            FI;
        ELSE
            IF *merging\-masking* ; merging\-masking
                THEN *DEST[i+63:i] remains unchanged*
                ELSE *zeroing\-masking*
                        ; zeroing\-masking
                    DEST[i+63:i] ← 0
            FI
    FI;
ENDFOR
DEST[MAXVL\-1:VL] ← 0

.fi
.RE

.SS VPMULDQ (VEX.256 encoded version)
.PP
.RS

.nf
DEST[63:0]←SignExtend64( SRC1[31:0]) * SignExtend64( SRC2[31:0])
DEST[127:64]←SignExtend64( SRC1[95:64]) * SignExtend64( SRC2[95:64])
DEST[191:128]←SignExtend64( SRC1[159:128]) * SignExtend64( SRC2[159:128])
DEST[255:192]←SignExtend64( SRC1[223:192]) * SignExtend64( SRC2[223:192])
DEST[MAXVL\-1:256] ←0

.fi
.RE

.SS VPMULDQ (VEX.128 encoded version)
.PP
.RS

.nf
DEST[63:0]←SignExtend64( SRC1[31:0]) * SignExtend64( SRC2[31:0])
DEST[127:64]←SignExtend64( SRC1[95:64]) * SignExtend64( SRC2[95:64])
DEST[MAXVL\-1:128] ←0

.fi
.RE

.SS PMULDQ (128\-bit Legacy SSE version)
.PP
.RS

.nf
DEST[63:0]←SignExtend64( DEST[31:0]) * SignExtend64( SRC[31:0])
DEST[127:64]←SignExtend64( DEST[95:64]) * SignExtend64( SRC[95:64])
DEST[MAXVL\-1:128] (Unmodified)

.fi
.RE

.SS Intel C/C++ Compiler Intrinsic Equivalent
.PP
.RS

.nf
VPMULDQ \_\_m512i \_mm512\_mul\_epi32(\_\_m512i a, \_\_m512i b);

VPMULDQ \_\_m512i \_mm512\_mask\_mul\_epi32(\_\_m512i s, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m512i a, \_\_m512i b);

VPMULDQ \_\_m512i \_mm512\_maskz\_mul\_epi32( \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m512i a, \_\_m512i b);

VPMULDQ \_\_m256i \_mm256\_mask\_mul\_epi32(\_\_m256i s, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m256i a, \_\_m256i b);

VPMULDQ \_\_m256i \_mm256\_mask\_mul\_epi32( \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m256i a, \_\_m256i b);

VPMULDQ \_\_m128i \_mm\_mask\_mul\_epi32(\_\_m128i s, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m128i a, \_\_m128i b);

VPMULDQ \_\_m128i \_mm\_mask\_mul\_epi32( \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m128i a, \_\_m128i b);

(V)PMULDQ \_\_m128i \_mm\_mul\_epi32( \_\_m128i a, \_\_m128i b);

VPMULDQ \_\_m256i \_mm256\_mul\_epi32( \_\_m256i a, \_\_m256i b);

.fi
.RE

.SS SIMD Floating\-Point Exceptions
.PP
None

.SS Other Exceptions
.PP
Non\-EVEX\-encoded instruction, see Exceptions Type 4.

.PP
EVEX\-encoded instruction, see Exceptions Type E4.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
