.nh
.TH "X86-SHRD" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
SHRD - DOUBLE PRECISION SHIFT RIGHT
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode*\fR	\fB\fCInstruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64\-Bit Mode\fR	\fB\fCCompat/Leg Mode\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
0F AC /r ib	SHRD r/m16, r16, imm8	MRI	Valid	Valid	Shift r16 in from the left.
0F AD /r	SHRD r/m16, r16, CL	MRC	Valid	Valid	Shift r16 in from the left.
0F AC /r ib	SHRD r/m32, r32, imm8	MRI	Valid	Valid	Shift r32 in from the left.
REX.W + 0F AC /r ib	SHRD r/m64, r64, imm8	MRI	Valid	N.E.	Shift r64 in from the left.
0F AD /r	SHRD r/m32, r32, CL	MRC	Valid	Valid	Shift r32 in from the left.
REX.W + 0F AD /r	SHRD r/m64, r64, CL	MRC	Valid	N.E.	Shift r64 in from the left.
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
Op/En	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
MRI	ModRM:r/m (w)	ModRM:reg (r)	imm8	NA
MRC	ModRM:r/m (w)	ModRM:reg (r)	CL	NA
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The SHRD instruction is useful for multi\-precision shifts of 64 bits or
more.

.PP
The instruction shifts the first operand (destination operand) to the
right the number of bits specified by the third operand (count operand).
The second operand (source operand) provides bits to shift in from the
left (starting with the most significant bit of the destination
operand).

.PP
The destination operand can be a register or a memory location; the
source operand is a register. The count operand is an unsigned integer
that can be stored in an immediate byte or the CL register. If the count
operand is CL, the shift count is the logical AND of CL and a count
mask. In non\-64\-bit modes and default 64\-bit mode, the width of the
count mask is 5 bits. Only bits 0 through 4 of the count register are
used (masking the count to a value between 0 and 31). If the count is
greater than the operand size, the result is undefined.

.PP
If the count is 1 or greater, the CF flag is filled with the last bit
shifted out of the destination operand. For a 1\-bit shift, the OF flag
is set if a sign change occurred; otherwise, it is cleared. If the count
operand is 0, flags are not affected.

.PP
In 64\-bit mode, the instruction’s default operation size is 32 bits.
Using a REX prefix in the form of REX.R permits access to additional
registers (R8\-R15). Using a REX prefix in the form of REX.W promotes
operation to 64 bits (upgrading the count mask to 6 bits). See the
summary chart at the beginning of this section for encoding data and
limits.

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
IF (In 64\-Bit Mode and REX.W = 1)
    THEN COUNT ← COUNT MOD 64;
    ELSE COUNT ← COUNT MOD 32;
FI
SIZE ← OperandSize;
IF COUNT = 0
    THEN
        No operation;
    ELSE
        IF COUNT > SIZE
            THEN (* Bad parameters *)
                DEST is undefined;
                CF, OF, SF, ZF, AF, PF are undefined;
            ELSE (* Perform the shift *)
                CF ← BIT[DEST, COUNT – 1]; (* Last bit shifted out on exit *)
                FOR i ← 0 TO SIZE – 1 – COUNT
                    DO
                        BIT[DEST, i] ← BIT[DEST, i + COUNT];
                    OD;
                FOR i ← SIZE – COUNT TO SIZE – 1
                    DO
                        BIT[DEST,i] ← BIT[SRC, i + COUNT – SIZE];
                    OD;
        FI;
FI;

.fi
.RE

.SH FLAGS AFFECTED
.PP
If the count is 1 or greater, the CF flag is filled with the last bit
shifted out of the destination operand and the SF, ZF, and PF flags are
set according to the value of the result. For a 1\-bit shift, the OF flag
is set if a sign change occurred; otherwise, it is cleared. For shifts
greater than 1 bit, the OF flag is undefined. If a shift occurs, the AF
flag is undefined. If the count operand is 0, the flags are not
affected. If the count is greater than the operand size, the flags are
undefined.

.SH PROTECTED MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If the destination is located in a non\-writable segment.
T}
	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
	T{
If the DS, ES, FS, or GS register contains a NULL segment selector.
T}
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made while the current privilege level is 3.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH REAL\-ADDRESS MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
#SS	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH VIRTUAL\-8086 MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH COMPATIBILITY MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH 64\-BIT MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory address referencing the SS segment is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#GP(0)	T{
If the memory address is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made while the current privilege level is 3.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
