.nh
.TH "X86-XSAVEC" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
XSAVEC - SAVE PROCESSOR EXTENDED STATES WITH COMPACTION
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode / Instruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64/32 bit Mode Support\fR	\fB\fCCPUID Feature Flag\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
NP 0F C7 /4 XSAVEC mem	M	V/V	XSAVEC	T{
Save state components specified by EDX:EAX to mem with compaction.
T}
T{
NP REX.W + 0F C7 /4 XSAVEC64 mem
T}
	M	V/N.E.	XSAVEC	T{
Save state components specified by EDX:EAX to mem with compaction.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
Op/En	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
M	ModRM:r/m (w)	NA	NA	NA
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Performs a full or partial save of processor state components to the
XSAVE area located at the memory address specified by the destination
operand. The implicit EDX:EAX register pair specifies a 64\-bit
instruction mask. The specific state components saved correspond to the
bits set in the requested\-feature bitmap (RFBM), which is the
logical\-AND of EDX:EAX and XCR0.

.PP
The format of the XSAVE area is detailed in Section 13.4, “XSAVE Area,”
of Intel® 64 and IA\-32 Architectures Software Developer’s Manual, Volume
1.

.PP
Section 13.10, “Operation of XSAVEC,” of Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual, Volume 1 provides a detailed
description of the operation of the XSAVEC instruction. The following
items provide a highlevel outline:

.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Execution of XSAVEC is similar to that of XSAVE. XSAVEC differs from
XSAVE in that it uses compaction and that it may use the init
optimization.
.IP \(bu 2
XSAVEC saves state component Intel® 64 and IA\-32 Architectures
Software Developer’s Manual, Volume 1.)
.IP \(bu 2
XSAVEC does not modify bytes 511:464 of the legacy region of the
XSAVE area (see Section 13.4.1, “Legacy Region of an XSAVE Area” of
Intel® 64 and IA\-32 Architectures Software Developer’s Manual,
Volume 1).
.IP \(bu 2
XSAVEC writes the logical AND of RFBM and XINUSE to the XSTATE\_BV
field of the XSAVE header.2,3 (See Section 13.4.2, “XSAVE Header” of
1.) XSAVEC sets bit 63 of the XCOMP\_BV field and sets bits 62:0 of
that field to RFBM[62:0]\&. XSAVEC does not write to any parts of
the XSAVE header other than the XSTATE\_BV and XCOMP\_BV fields.
.IP \(bu 2
XSAVEC always uses the compacted format of the extended region of
the XSAVE area (see Section 13.4.3, “Extended Region of an XSAVE
Area” of Volume 1).

.RE

.PP
.RS

.PP
1\&. There is an exception for state component 1 (SSE). MXCSR is part
of SSE state, but XINUSE[1] may be 0 even if MXCSR does not have its
initial value of 1F80H. In this case, XSAVEC saves SSE state as long
as RFBM[1] = 1.

.PP
2\&. Unlike XSAVE and XSAVEOPT, XSAVEC clears bits in the XSTATE\_BV
field that correspond to bits that are clear in RFBM.

.PP
3\&. There is an exception for state component 1 (SSE). MXCSR is part
of SSE state, but XINUSE[1] may be 0 even if MXCSR does not have its
initial value of 1F80H. In this case, XSAVEC sets XSTATE\_BV[1] to 1
as long as RFBM[1] = 1.

.RE

.PP
Use of a destination operand not aligned to 64\-byte boundary (in either
64\-bit or 32\-bit modes) results in a general\-protection (#GP)
exception. In 64\-bit mode, the upper 32 bits of RDX and RAX are ignored.

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
RFBM ← XCR0 AND EDX:EAX;
                    /* bitwise logical AND */
TO\_BE\_SAVED ← RFBM AND XINUSE;
                    /* bitwise logical AND */
If MXCSR ≠ 1F80H AND RFBM[1]
    TO\_BE\_SAVED[1] = 1;
FI;
IF TO\_BE\_SAVED[0] = 1
    THEN store x87 state into legacy region of XSAVE area;
FI;
IF TO\_BE\_SAVED[1] = 1
    THEN store SSE state into legacy region of XSAVE area; // this step saves the XMM registers, MXCSR, and MXCSR\_MASK
FI;
NEXT\_FEATURE\_OFFSET = 576;
                    // Legacy area and XSAVE header consume 576 bytes
FOR i ← 2 TO 62
    IF RFBM[i] = 1
        THEN
            IF TO\_BE\_SAVED[i]
                THEN save XSAVE state component i at offset NEXT\_FEATURE\_OFFSET from base of XSAVE area;
            FI;
            NEXT\_FEATURE\_OFFSET = NEXT\_FEATURE\_OFFSET + n (n enumerated by CPUID(EAX=0DH,ECX=i):EAX);
    FI;
ENDFOR;
XSTATE\_BV field in XSAVE header ← TO\_BE\_SAVED;
XCOMP\_BV field in XSAVE header ← RFBM OR 80000000\_00000000H;

.fi
.RE

.SH FLAGS AFFECTED
.PP
None.

.SH INTEL C/C++ COMPILER INTRINSIC EQUIVALENT
.PP
.RS

.nf
XSAVEC: void \_xsavec( void * , unsigned \_\_int64);

XSAVEC64: void \_xsavec64( void * , unsigned \_\_int64);

.fi
.RE

.SH PROTECTED MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
	T{
If a memory operand is not aligned on a 64\-byte boundary, regardless of segment.
T}
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#NM	If CR0.TS
[
bit 3
]
 = 1.
#UD	If CPUID.01H:ECX.XSAVE
[
bit 26
]
T{
 = 0 or CPUID.(EAX=0DH,ECX=1):EAX.XSAVEC
T}
[
bit 1
]
 = 0.
	If CR4.OSXSAVE
[
bit 18
]
 = 0.
	If the LOCK prefix is used.
#AC	T{
If this exception is disabled a general protection exception (
T}
#
T{
GP) is signaled if the memory operand is not aligned on a 64\-byte boundary, as described above. If the alignment check exception (
T}
#
T{
AC) is enabled (and the CPL is 3), signaling of 
T}
#
T{
AC is not guaranteed and may vary with implementation, as follows. In all implementations where 
T}
#
T{
AC is not signaled, a general protection exception is signaled in its place. In addition, the width of the alignment check may also vary with implementation. For instance, for a given implementation, an alignment check exception might be signaled for a 2\-byte misalignment, whereas a general protection exception might be signaled for all other misalignments (4\-, 8\-, or 16\-byte misalignments).
T}
.TE

.SH REAL\-ADDRESS MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP	T{
If a memory operand is not aligned on a 64\-byte boundary, regardless of segment.
T}
	T{
If any part of the operand lies outside the effective address space from 0 to FFFFH.
T}
#NM	If CR0.TS
[
bit 3
]
 = 1.
#UD	If CPUID.01H:ECX.XSAVE
[
bit 26
]
T{
 = 0 or CPUID.(EAX=0DH,ECX=1):EAX.XSAVEC
T}
[
bit 1
]
 = 0.
	If CR4.OSXSAVE
[
bit 18
]
 = 0.
	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH VIRTUAL\-8086 MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH COMPATIBILITY MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH 64\-BIT MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If the memory address is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
	T{
If a memory operand is not aligned on a 64\-byte boundary, regardless of segment.
T}
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory address referencing the SS segment is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#NM	If CR0.TS
[
bit 3
]
 = 1.
#UD	If CPUID.01H:ECX.XSAVE
[
bit 26
]
T{
 = 0 or CPUID.(EAX=0DH,ECX=1):EAX.XSAVEC
T}
[
bit 1
]
 = 0.
	If CR4.OSXSAVE
[
bit 18
]
 = 0.
	If the LOCK prefix is used.
#AC	T{
If this exception is disabled a general protection exception (
T}
#
T{
GP) is signaled if the memory operand is not aligned on a 64\-byte boundary, as described above. If the alignment check exception (
T}
#
T{
AC) is enabled (and the CPL is 3), signaling of 
T}
#
T{
AC is not guaranteed and may vary with implementation, as follows. In all implementations where 
T}
#
T{
AC is not signaled, a general protection exception is signaled in its place. In addition, the width of the alignment check may also vary with implementation. For instance, for a given implementation, an alignment check exception might be signaled for a 2\-byte misalignment, whereas a general protection exception might be signaled for all other misalignments (4\-, 8\-, or 16\-byte misalignments).
T}
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
