.nh
.TH "X86-JCC" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
JCC - JUMP IF CONDITION IS MET
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode\fR	\fB\fCInstruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64\-Bit Mode\fR	\fB\fCCompat/Leg Mode\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
77 cb	JA rel8	D	Valid	Valid	T{
Jump short if above (CF=0 and ZF=0).
T}
73 cb	JAE rel8	D	Valid	Valid	T{
Jump short if above or equal (CF=0).
T}
72 cb	JB rel8	D	Valid	Valid	Jump short if below (CF=1).
76 cb	JBE rel8	D	Valid	Valid	T{
Jump short if below or equal (CF=1 or ZF=1).
T}
72 cb	JC rel8	D	Valid	Valid	Jump short if carry (CF=1).
E3 cb	JCXZ rel8	D	N.E.	Valid	T{
Jump short if CX register is 0.
T}
E3 cb	JECXZ rel8	D	Valid	Valid	T{
Jump short if ECX register is 0.
T}
E3 cb	JRCXZ rel8	D	Valid	N.E.	T{
Jump short if RCX register is 0.
T}
74 cb	JE rel8	D	Valid	Valid	Jump short if equal (ZF=1).
7F cb	JG rel8	D	Valid	Valid	T{
Jump short if greater (ZF=0 and SF=OF).
T}
7D cb	JGE rel8	D	Valid	Valid	T{
Jump short if greater or equal (SF=OF).
T}
7C cb	JL rel8	D	Valid	Valid	Jump short if less (SF≠ OF).
7E cb	JLE rel8	D	Valid	Valid	T{
Jump short if less or equal (ZF=1 or SF≠ OF).
T}
76 cb	JNA rel8	D	Valid	Valid	T{
Jump short if not above (CF=1 or ZF=1).
T}
72 cb	JNAE rel8	D	Valid	Valid	T{
Jump short if not above or equal (CF=1).
T}
73 cb	JNB rel8	D	Valid	Valid	T{
Jump short if not below (CF=0).
T}
77 cb	JNBE rel8	D	Valid	Valid	T{
Jump short if not below or equal (CF=0 and ZF=0).
T}
73 cb	JNC rel8	D	Valid	Valid	T{
Jump short if not carry (CF=0).
T}
75 cb	JNE rel8	D	Valid	Valid	T{
Jump short if not equal (ZF=0).
T}
7E cb	JNG rel8	D	Valid	Valid	T{
Jump short if not greater (ZF=1 or SF≠ OF).
T}
7C cb	JNGE rel8	D	Valid	Valid	T{
Jump short if not greater or equal (SF≠ OF).
T}
7D cb	JNL rel8	D	Valid	Valid	T{
Jump short if not less (SF=OF).
T}
7F cb	JNLE rel8	D	Valid	Valid	T{
Jump short if not less or equal (ZF=0 and SF=OF).
T}
71 cb	JNO rel8	D	Valid	Valid	T{
Jump short if not overflow (OF=0).
T}
7B cb	JNP rel8	D	Valid	Valid	T{
Jump short if not parity (PF=0).
T}
79 cb	JNS rel8	D	Valid	Valid	Jump short if not sign (SF=0).
75 cb	JNZ rel8	D	Valid	Valid	Jump short if not zero (ZF=0).
70 cb	JO rel8	D	Valid	Valid	Jump short if overflow (OF=1).
7A cb	JP rel8	D	Valid	Valid	Jump short if parity (PF=1).
7A cb	JPE rel8	D	Valid	Valid	T{
Jump short if parity even (PF=1).
T}
7B cb	JPO rel8	D	Valid	Valid	T{
Jump short if parity odd (PF=0).
T}
78 cb	JS rel8	D	Valid	Valid	Jump short if sign (SF=1).
74 cb	JZ rel8	D	Valid	Valid	Jump short if zero (ZF = 1).
0F 87 cw	JA rel16	D	N.S.	Valid	T{
Jump near if above (CF=0 and ZF=0). Not supported in 64\-bit mode.
T}
0F 87 cd	JA rel32	D	Valid	Valid	T{
Jump near if above (CF=0 and ZF=0).
T}
0F 83 cw	JAE rel16	D	N.S.	Valid	T{
Jump near if above or equal (CF=0). Not supported in 64\-bit mode.
T}
0F 83 cd	JAE rel32	D	Valid	Valid	T{
Jump near if above or equal (CF=0).
T}
0F 82 cw	JB rel16	D	N.S.	Valid	T{
Jump near if below (CF=1). Not supported in 64\-bit mode.
T}
0F 82 cd	JB rel32	D	Valid	Valid	Jump near if below (CF=1).
0F 86 cw	JBE rel16	D	N.S.	Valid	T{
Jump near if below or equal (CF=1 or ZF=1). Not supported in 64\-bit mode.
T}
0F 86 cd	JBE rel32	D	Valid	Valid	T{
Jump near if below or equal (CF=1 or ZF=1).
T}
0F 82 cw	JC rel16	D	N.S.	Valid	T{
Jump near if carry (CF=1). Not supported in 64\-bit mode.
T}
0F 82 cd	JC rel32	D	Valid	Valid	Jump near if carry (CF=1).
0F 84 cw	JE rel16	D	N.S.	Valid	T{
Jump near if equal (ZF=1). Not supported in 64\-bit mode.
T}
0F 84 cd	JE rel32	D	Valid	Valid	Jump near if equal (ZF=1).
0F 84 cw	JZ rel16	D	N.S.	Valid	T{
Jump near if 0 (ZF=1). Not supported in 64\-bit mode.
T}
0F 84 cd	JZ rel32	D	Valid	Valid	Jump near if 0 (ZF=1).
0F 8F cw	JG rel16	D	N.S.	Valid	T{
Jump near if greater (ZF=0 and SF=OF). Not supported in 64\-bit mode.
T}
0F 8F cd	JG rel32	D	Valid	Valid	T{
Jump near if greater (ZF=0 and SF=OF).
T}
0F 8D cw	JGE rel16	D	N.S.	Valid	T{
Jump near if greater or equal (SF=OF). Not supported in 64\-bit mode.
T}
0F 8D cd	JGE rel32	D	Valid	Valid	T{
Jump near if greater or equal (SF=OF).
T}
0F 8C cw	JL rel16	D	N.S.	Valid	T{
Jump near if less (SF≠ OF). Not supported in 64\-bit mode.
T}
0F 8C cd	JL rel32	D	Valid	Valid	Jump near if less (SF≠ OF).
0F 8E cw	JLE rel16	D	N.S.	Valid	T{
Jump near if less or equal (ZF=1 or SF≠ OF). Not supported in 64\-bit mode.
T}
0F 8E cd	JLE rel32	D	Valid	Valid	T{
Jump near if less or equal (ZF=1 or SF≠ OF).
T}
0F 86 cw	JNA rel16	D	N.S.	Valid	T{
Jump near if not above (CF=1 or ZF=1). Not supported in 64\-bit mode.
T}
0F 86 cd	JNA rel32	D	Valid	Valid	T{
Jump near if not above (CF=1 or ZF=1).
T}
0F 82 cw	JNAE rel16	D	N.S.	Valid	T{
Jump near if not above or equal (CF=1). Not supported in 64\-bit mode.
T}
0F 82 cd	JNAE rel32	D	Valid	Valid	T{
Jump near if not above or equal (CF=1).
T}
0F 83 cw	JNB rel16	D	N.S.	Valid	T{
Jump near if not below (CF=0). Not supported in 64\-bit mode.
T}
0F 83 cd	JNB rel32	D	Valid	Valid	Jump near if not below (CF=0).
0F 87 cw	JNBE rel16	D	N.S.	Valid	T{
Jump near if not below or equal (CF=0 and ZF=0). Not supported in 64\-bit mode.
T}
0F 87 cd	JNBE rel32	D	Valid	Valid	T{
Jump near if not below or equal (CF=0 and ZF=0).
T}
0F 83 cw	JNC rel16	D	N.S.	Valid	T{
Jump near if not carry (CF=0). Not supported in 64\-bit mode.
T}
0F 83 cd	JNC rel32	D	Valid	Valid	Jump near if not carry (CF=0).
0F 85 cw	JNE rel16	D	N.S.	Valid	T{
Jump near if not equal (ZF=0). Not supported in 64\-bit mode.
T}
0F 85 cd	JNE rel32	D	Valid	Valid	Jump near if not equal (ZF=0).
0F 8E cw	JNG rel16	D	N.S.	Valid	T{
Jump near if not greater (ZF=1 or SF≠ OF). Not supported in 64\-bit mode.
T}
0F 8E cd	JNG rel32	D	Valid	Valid	T{
Jump near if not greater (ZF=1 or SF≠ OF).
T}
0F 8C cw	JNGE rel16	D	N.S.	Valid	T{
Jump near if not greater or equal (SF≠ OF). Not supported in 64\-bit mode.
T}
0F 8C cd	JNGE rel32	D	Valid	Valid	T{
Jump near if not greater or equal (SF≠ OF).
T}
0F 8D cw	JNL rel16	D	N.S.	Valid	T{
Jump near if not less (SF=OF). Not supported in 64\-bit mode.
T}
0F 8D cd	JNL rel32	D	Valid	Valid	Jump near if not less (SF=OF).
0F 8F cw	JNLE rel16	D	N.S.	Valid	T{
Jump near if not less or equal (ZF=0 and SF=OF). Not supported in 64\-bit mode.
T}
0F 8F cd	JNLE rel32	D	Valid	Valid	T{
Jump near if not less or equal (ZF=0 and SF=OF).
T}
0F 81 cw	JNO rel16	D	N.S.	Valid	T{
Jump near if not overflow (OF=0). Not supported in 64\-bit mode.
T}
0F 81 cd	JNO rel32	D	Valid	Valid	T{
Jump near if not overflow (OF=0).
T}
0F 8B cw	JNP rel16	D	N.S.	Valid	T{
Jump near if not parity (PF=0). Not supported in 64\-bit mode.
T}
0F 8B cd	JNP rel32	D	Valid	Valid	T{
Jump near if not parity (PF=0).
T}
0F 89 cw	JNS rel16	D	N.S.	Valid	T{
Jump near if not sign (SF=0). Not supported in 64\-bit mode.
T}
0F 89 cd	JNS rel32	D	Valid	Valid	Jump near if not sign (SF=0).
0F 85 cw	JNZ rel16	D	N.S.	Valid	T{
Jump near if not zero (ZF=0). Not supported in 64\-bit mode.
T}
0F 85 cd	JNZ rel32	D	Valid	Valid	Jump near if not zero (ZF=0).
0F 80 cw	JO rel16	D	N.S.	Valid	T{
Jump near if overflow (OF=1). Not supported in 64\-bit mode.
T}
0F 80 cd	JO rel32	D	Valid	Valid	Jump near if overflow (OF=1).
0F 8A cw	JP rel16	D	N.S.	Valid	T{
Jump near if parity (PF=1). Not supported in 64\-bit mode.
T}
0F 8A cd	JP rel32	D	Valid	Valid	Jump near if parity (PF=1).
0F 8A cw	JPE rel16	D	N.S.	Valid	T{
Jump near if parity even (PF=1). Not supported in 64\-bit mode.
T}
0F 8A cd	JPE rel32	D	Valid	Valid	T{
Jump near if parity even (PF=1).
T}
0F 8B cw	JPO rel16	D	N.S.	Valid	T{
Jump near if parity odd (PF=0). Not supported in 64\-bit mode.
T}
0F 8B cd	JPO rel32	D	Valid	Valid	T{
Jump near if parity odd (PF=0).
T}
0F 88 cw	JS rel16	D	N.S.	Valid	T{
Jump near if sign (SF=1). Not supported in 64\-bit mode.
T}
0F 88 cd	JS rel32	D	Valid	Valid	Jump near if sign (SF=1).
0F 84 cw	JZ rel16	D	N.S.	Valid	T{
Jump near if 0 (ZF=1). Not supported in 64\-bit mode.
T}
0F 84 cd	JZ rel32	D	Valid	Valid	Jump near if 0 (ZF=1).
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
Op/En	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
D	Offset	NA	NA	NA
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Checks the state of one or more of the status flags in the EFLAGS
register (CF, OF, PF, SF, and ZF) and, if the flags are in the specified
state (condition), performs a jump to the target instruction specified
by the destination operand. A condition code (cc instruction.

.PP
The target instruction is specified with a relative offset (a signed
offset relative to the current value of the instruction pointer in the
EIP register). A relative offset (rel32) is generally specified as a
label in assembly code, but at the machine code level, it is encoded as
a signed, 8\-bit or 32\-bit immediate value, which is added to the
instruction pointer. Instruction coding is most efficient for offsets of
–128 to +127. If the operand\-size attribute is 16, the upper two bytes
of the EIP register are cleared, resulting in a maximum instruction
pointer size of 16 bits.

.PP
The conditions for each Jcc mnemonic are given in the “Description”
column of the table on the preceding page. The terms “less” and
“greater” are used for comparisons of signed integers and the terms
“above” and “below” are used for unsigned integers.

.PP
Because a particular state of the status flags can sometimes be
interpreted in two ways, two mnemonics are defined for some opcodes. For
example, the JA (jump if above) instruction and the JNBE (jump if not
below or equal) instruction are alternate mnemonics for the opcode 77H.

.PP
The Jcc instruction, and then access the target with an unconditional
far jump (JMP instruction) to the other segment. For example, the
following conditional far jump is illegal:

.PP
JZ FARLABEL;

.PP
To accomplish this far jump, use the following two instructions:

.PP
JNZ BEYOND;

.PP
JMP FARLABEL;

.PP
BEYOND:

.PP
The JRCXZ, JECXZ and JCXZ instructions differ from other Jcc
instructions because they do not check status flags. Instead, they check
RCX, ECX or CX for 0. The register checked is determined by the
address\-size attribute. These instructions are useful when used at the
beginning of a loop that terminates with a conditional loop instruction
(such as LOOPNE). They can be used to prevent an instruction sequence
from entering a loop when RCX, ECX or CX is 0. This would cause the loop
to execute 232 or 64K times (not zero times).

.PP
All conditional jumps are converted to code fetches of one or two cache
lines, regardless of jump address or cache\-ability.

.PP
In 64\-bit mode, operand size is fixed at 64 bits. JMP Short is RIP = RIP
+ 8\-bit offset sign extended to 64 bits. JMP Near is RIP = RIP + 32\-bit
offset sign extended to 64 bits.

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
IF condition
    THEN
        tempEIP ← EIP + SignExtend(DEST);
        IF OperandSize = 16
            THEN tempEIP ← tempEIP AND 0000FFFFH;
        FI;
    IF tempEIP is not within code segment limit
        THEN #GP(0);
        ELSE EIP ← tempEIP
    FI;
FI;

.fi
.RE

.SH FLAGS AFFECTED
.PP
None

.SH PROTECTED MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If the offset being jumped to is beyond the limits of the CS segment.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH REAL\-ADDRESS MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP	T{
If the offset being jumped to is beyond the limits of the CS segment or is outside of the effective address space from 0 to FFFFH. This condition can occur if a 32\-bit address size override prefix is used.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH VIRTUAL\-8086 MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in real address mode.

.SH COMPATIBILITY MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH 64\-BIT MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If the memory address is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
