.nh
.TH "X86-INVPCID" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
INVPCID - INVALIDATE PROCESS-CONTEXT IDENTIFIER
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode/Instruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64/32\-bit Mode\fR	\fB\fCCPUID Feature Flag\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
T{
66 0F 38 82 /r INVPCID r32, m128
T}
	RM	NE/V	INVPCID	T{
Invalidates entries in the TLBs and paging\-structure caches based on invalidation type in r32 and descriptor in m128.
T}
T{
66 0F 38 82 /r INVPCID r64, m128
T}
	RM	V/NE	INVPCID	T{
Invalidates entries in the TLBs and paging\-structure caches based on invalidation type in r64 and descriptor in m128.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
Op/En	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
RM	ModRM:reg (r)	ModRM:r/m (r)	NA	NA
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Invalidates mappings in the translation lookaside buffers (TLBs) and
paging\-structure caches based on process\-context identifier (PCID). (See
Section 4.10, “Caching Translation Information,” in Intel 64 and IA\-32
Architecture Software Developer’s Manual, Volume 3A.) Invalidation is
based on the INVPCID type specified in the register operand and the
INVPCID descriptor specified in the memory operand.

.PP
Outside 64\-bit mode, the register operand is always 32 bits, regardless
of the value of CS.D. In 64\-bit mode the register operand has 64 bits.

.PP
There are four INVPCID types currently defined:

.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Individual\-address invalidation: If the INVPCID type is 0, the
logical processor invalidates mappings—except global
translations—for the linear address and PCID specified in the
INVPCID descriptor.1 In some cases, the instruction may invalidate
global translations or mappings for other linear addresses (or other
PCIDs) as well.
.IP \(bu 2
Single\-context invalidation: If the INVPCID type is 1, the logical
processor invalidates all mappings—except global
translations—associated with the PCID specified in the INVPCID
descriptor. In some cases, the instruction may invalidate global
translations or mappings for other PCIDs as well.
.IP \(bu 2
All\-context invalidation, including global translations: If the
INVPCID type is 2, the logical processor invalidates all
mappings—including global translations—associated with any PCID.
.IP \(bu 2
All\-context invalidation: If the INVPCID type is 3, the logical
processor invalidates all mappings—except global
translations—associated with any PCID. In some case, the instruction
may invalidate global translations as well.

.RE

.PP
.RS

.PP
1\&. If the paging structures map the linear address using a page
larger than 4 KBytes and there are multiple TLB entries for that page
(see Section 4.10.2.3, “Details of TLB Use,” in the Intel® 64 and
IA\-32 Architectures Software Developer’s Manual, Volume 3A), the
instruction invalidates all of them.

.RE

.PP
The INVPCID descriptor comprises 128 bits and consists of a PCID and a
linear address as shown in Figure 3\-24. For INVPCID type 0, the
processor uses the full 64 bits of the linear address even outside
64\-bit mode; the linear address is not used for other INVPCID types.

.PP
12764631211 0Linear AddressReserved (must be zero)PCID

.PP
Figure 3\-24. INVPCID Descriptor

.PP
If CR4.PCIDE = 0, a logical processor does not cache information for any
PCID other than 000H. In this case, executions with INVPCID types 0 and
1 are allowed only if the PCID specified in the INVPCID descriptor is
000H; executions with INVPCID types 2 and 3 invalidate mappings only for
PCID 000H. Note that CR4.PCIDE must be 0 outside 64\-bit mode (see
Chapter 4.10.1, “Process\-Context Identifiers (PCIDs)‚” of the Intel® 64
and IA\-32 Architectures Software Developer’s Manual, Volume 3A).

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
INVPCID\_TYPE ← value of register operand; // must be in the range of 0–3
INVPCID\_DESC ← value of memory operand;
CASE INVPCID\_TYPE OF
    0:
            // individual\-address invalidation
        PCID ← INVPCID\_DESC[11:0];
        L\_ADDR ← INVPCID\_DESC[127:64];
        Invalidate mappings for L\_ADDR associated with PCID except global translations;
        BREAK;
    1:
            // single PCID invalidation
        PCID ← INVPCID\_DESC[11:0];
        Invalidate all mappings associated with PCID except global translations;
        BREAK;
    2:
            // all PCID invalidation including global translations
        Invalidate all mappings for all PCIDs, including global translations;
        BREAK;
    3:
            // all PCID invalidation retaining global translations
        Invalidate all mappings for all PCIDs except global translations;
        BREAK;
ESAC;

.fi
.RE

.SH INTEL C/C++ COMPILER INTRINSIC EQUIVALENT
.PP
.RS

.nf
INVPCID: void \_invpcid(unsigned \_\_int32 type, void * descriptor);

.fi
.RE

.SH SIMD FLOATING\-POINT EXCEPTIONS
.PP
None

.SH PROTECTED MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If the current privilege level is not 0.
T}
	T{
If the memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
	T{
If the DS, ES, FS, or GS register contains an unusable segment.
T}
	T{
If the source operand is located in an execute\-only code segment.
T}
	T{
If an invalid type is specified in the register operand, i.e., INVPCID
T}
\_
TYPE 
\&gt;
 3.
	If bits 63:12 of INVPCID
\_
DESC are not all zero.
	If INVPCID
\_
T{
TYPE is either 0 or 1 and INVPCID
T}
\_
DESC
[
11:0
]
 is not zero.
	If INVPCID
\_
T{
TYPE is 0 and the linear address in INVPCID
T}
\_
DESC
[
127:64
]
 is not canonical.
#PF(fault\-code)	T{
If a page fault occurs in accessing the memory operand.
T}
#SS(0)	T{
If the memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
	T{
If the SS register contains an unusable segment.
T}
#UD	T{
If if CPUID.(EAX=07H, ECX=0H):EBX.INVPCID (bit 10) = 0.
T}
	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH REAL\-ADDRESS MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP	T{
If an invalid type is specified in the register operand, i.e., INVPCID
T}
\_
TYPE 
\&gt;
 3.
	If bits 63:12 of INVPCID
\_
DESC are not all zero.
	If INVPCID
\_
T{
TYPE is either 0 or 1 and INVPCID
T}
\_
DESC
[
11:0
]
 is not zero.
	If INVPCID
\_
T{
TYPE is 0 and the linear address in INVPCID
T}
\_
DESC
[
127:64
]
 is not canonical.
#UD	T{
If CPUID.(EAX=07H, ECX=0H):EBX.INVPCID (bit 10) = 0.
T}
	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH VIRTUAL\-8086 MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
The INVPCID instruction is not recognized in virtual\-8086 mode.
T}
.TE

.SH COMPATIBILITY MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH 64\-BIT MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If the current privilege level is not 0.
T}
	T{
If the memory operand is in the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segments and the memory address is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
	T{
If an invalid type is specified in the register operand, i.e., INVPCID
T}
\_
TYPE 
\&gt;
 3.
	If bits 63:12 of INVPCID
\_
DESC are not all zero.
	If CR4.PCIDE=0, INVPCID
\_
T{
TYPE is either 0 or 1, and INVPCID
T}
\_
DESC
[
11:0
]
 is not zero.
	If INVPCID
\_
T{
TYPE is 0 and the linear address in INVPCID
T}
\_
DESC
[
127:64
]
 is not canonical.
#PF(fault\-code)	T{
If a page fault occurs in accessing the memory operand.
T}
#SS(0)	T{
If the memory destination operand is in the SS segment and the memory address is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
	T{
If CPUID.(EAX=07H, ECX=0H):EBX.INVPCID (bit 10) = 0.
T}
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
