.nh
.TH "X86-LLDT" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
LLDT - LOAD LOCAL DESCRIPTOR TABLE REGISTER
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode\fR	\fB\fCInstruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64\-Bit Mode\fR	\fB\fCCompat/Leg Mode\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
0F 00 /2	LLDT r/m16	M	Valid	Valid	T{
Load segment selector r/m16 into LDTR.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
Op/En	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
M	ModRM:r/m (r)	NA	NA	NA
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Loads the source operand into the segment selector field of the local
descriptor table register (LDTR). The source operand (a general\-purpose
register or a memory location) contains a segment selector that points
to a local descriptor table (LDT). After the segment selector is loaded
in the LDTR, the processor uses the segment selector to locate the
segment descriptor for the LDT in the global descriptor table (GDT). It
then loads the segment limit and base address for the LDT from the
segment descriptor into the LDTR. The segment registers DS, ES, SS, FS,
GS, and CS are not affected by this instruction, nor is the LDTR field
in the task state segment (TSS) for the current task.

.PP
If bits 2\-15 of the source operand are 0, LDTR is marked invalid and the
LLDT instruction completes silently. However, all subsequent references
to descriptors in the LDT (except by the LAR, VERR, VERW or LSL
instructions) cause a general protection exception (#GP).

.PP
The operand\-size attribute has no effect on this instruction.

.PP
The LLDT instruction is provided for use in operating\-system software;
it should not be used in application programs. This instruction can only
be executed in protected mode or 64\-bit mode.

.PP
In 64\-bit mode, the operand size is fixed at 16 bits.

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
IF SRC(Offset) > descriptor table limit
    THEN #GP(segment selector); FI;
IF segment selector is valid
    Read segment descriptor;
    IF SegmentDescriptor(Type) ≠ LDT
        THEN #GP(segment selector); FI;
    IF segment descriptor is not present
        THEN #NP(segment selector); FI;
    LDTR(SegmentSelector) ← SRC;
    LDTR(SegmentDescriptor) ← GDTSegmentDescriptor;
ELSE LDTR ← INVALID
FI;

.fi
.RE

.SH FLAGS AFFECTED
.PP
None

.SH PROTECTED MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If the current privilege level is not 0.
T}
	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
	T{
If the DS, ES, FS, or GS register contains a NULL segment selector.
T}
#GP(selector)	T{
If the selector operand does not point into the Global Descriptor Table or if the entry in the GDT is not a Local Descriptor Table.
T}
	T{
Segment selector is beyond GDT limit.
T}
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#NP(selector)	T{
If the LDT descriptor is not present.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH REAL\-ADDRESS MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#UD	T{
The LLDT instruction is not recognized in real\-address mode.
T}
.TE

.SH VIRTUAL\-8086 MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#UD	T{
The LLDT instruction is not recognized in virtual\-8086 mode.
T}
.TE

.SH COMPATIBILITY MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH 64\-BIT MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory address referencing the SS segment is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#GP(0)	T{
If the current privilege level is not 0.
T}
	T{
If the memory address is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#GP(selector)	T{
If the selector operand does not point into the Global Descriptor Table or if the entry in the GDT is not a Local Descriptor Table.
T}
	T{
Segment selector is beyond GDT limit.
T}
#NP(selector)	T{
If the LDT descriptor is not present.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
