.nh
.TH "X86-CVTSS2SI" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
CVTSS2SI - CONVERT SCALAR SINGLE-PRECISION FLOATING-POINT VALUE TO DOUBLEWORD INTEGER
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode/Instruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64/32 bit Mode Support\fR	\fB\fCCPUID Feature Flag\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
T{
F3 0F 2D /r CVTSS2SI r32, xmm1/m32
T}
	A	V/V	SSE	T{
Convert one single\-precision floating\-point value from xmm1/m32 to one signed doubleword integer in r32.
T}
T{
F3 REX.W 0F 2D /r CVTSS2SI r64, xmm1/m32
T}
	A	V/N.E.	SSE	T{
Convert one single\-precision floating\-point value from xmm1/m32 to one signed quadword integer in r64.
T}
T{
VEX.LIG.F3.0F.W0 2D /r 1 VCVTSS2SI r32, xmm1/m32
T}
	A	V/V	AVX	T{
Convert one single\-precision floating\-point value from xmm1/m32 to one signed doubleword integer in r32.
T}
T{
VEX.LIG.F3.0F.W1 2D /r 1 VCVTSS2SI r64, xmm1/m32
T}
	A	V/N.E.2	AVX	T{
Convert one single\-precision floating\-point value from xmm1/m32 to one signed quadword integer in r64.
T}
T{
EVEX.LIG.F3.0F.W0 2D /r VCVTSS2SI r32, xmm1/m32{er}
T}
	B	V/V	AVX512F	T{
Convert one single\-precision floating\-point value from xmm1/m32 to one signed doubleword integer in r32.
T}
T{
EVEX.LIG.F3.0F.W1 2D /r VCVTSS2SI r64, xmm1/m32{er}
T}
	B	V/N.E.2	AVX512F	T{
Convert one single\-precision floating\-point value from xmm1/m32 to one signed quadword integer in r64.
T}
.TE

.PP
.RS

.PP
1\&. Software should ensure VCVTSS2SI is encoded with VEX.L=0. Encoding
VCVTSS2SI with VEX.L=1 may encounter unpredictable behavior across
different processor generations.

.PP
2\&. VEX.W1/EVEX.W1 in non\-64 bit is ignored; the instructions behaves
as if the W0 version is used.

.RE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
Op/En	Tuple Type	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
A	NA	ModRM:reg (w)	ModRM:r/m (r)	NA	NA
B	Tuple1 Fixed	ModRM:reg (w)	ModRM:r/m (r)	NA	NA
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Converts a single\-precision floating\-point value in the source operand
(the second operand) to a signed doubleword integer (or signed quadword
integer if operand size is 64 bits) in the destination operand (the
first operand). The source operand can be an XMM register or a memory
location. The destination operand is a general\-purpose register. When
the source operand is an XMM register, the single\-precision
floating\-point value is contained in the low doubleword of the register.

.PP
When a conversion is inexact, the value returned is rounded according to
the rounding control bits in the MXCSR register or the embedded rounding
control bits. If a converted result cannot be represented in the
destination format, the floating\-point invalid exception is raised, and
if this exception is masked, the indefinite integer value (2w\-1, where w
represents the number of bits in the destination format) is returned.

.PP
Legacy SSE instructions: In 64\-bit mode, Use of the REX.W prefix
promotes the instruction to produce 64\-bit data. See the summary chart
at the beginning of this section for encoding data and limits.

.PP
VEX.W1 and EVEX.W1 versions: promotes the instruction to produce 64\-bit
data in 64\-bit mode.

.PP
Note: VEX.vvvv and EVEX.vvvv are reserved and must be 1111b, otherwise
instructions will #UD.

.PP
Software should ensure VCVTSS2SI is encoded with VEX.L=0. Encoding
VCVTSS2SI with VEX.L=1 may encounter unpredictable behavior across
different processor generations.

.SH OPERATION
.SS VCVTSS2SI (EVEX encoded version)
.PP
.RS

.nf
IF (SRC *is register*) AND (EVEX.b = 1)
    THEN
        SET\_RM(EVEX.RC);
    ELSE
        SET\_RM(MXCSR.RM);
FI;
IF 64\-bit Mode and OperandSize = 64
THEN
    DEST[63:0] ← Convert\_Single\_Precision\_Floating\_Point\_To\_Integer(SRC[31:0]);
ELSE
    DEST[31:0] ← Convert\_Single\_Precision\_Floating\_Point\_To\_Integer(SRC[31:0]);
FI;

.fi
.RE

.SS (V)CVTSS2SI (Legacy and VEX.128 encoded version)
.PP
.RS

.nf
IF 64\-bit Mode and OperandSize = 64
THEN
    DEST[63:0] ←Convert\_Single\_Precision\_Floating\_Point\_To\_Integer(SRC[31:0]);
ELSE
    DEST[31:0] ←Convert\_Single\_Precision\_Floating\_Point\_To\_Integer(SRC[31:0]);
FI;

.fi
.RE

.SH INTEL C/C++ COMPILER INTRINSIC EQUIVALENT
.PP
.RS

.nf
VCVTSS2SI int \_mm\_cvtss\_i32( \_\_m128 a);

VCVTSS2SI int \_mm\_cvt\_roundss\_i32( \_\_m128 a, int r);

VCVTSS2SI \_\_int64 \_mm\_cvtss\_i64( \_\_m128 a);

VCVTSS2SI \_\_int64 \_mm\_cvt\_roundss\_i64( \_\_m128 a, int r);

.fi
.RE

.SH SIMD FLOATING\-POINT EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Invalid, Precision

.SH OTHER EXCEPTIONS
.PP
VEX\-encoded instructions, see Exceptions Type 3; additionally

.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#UD	If VEX.vvvv != 1111B.
.TE

.PP
EVEX\-encoded instructions, see Exceptions Type E3NF.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
