.nh
.TH "X86-OR" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
OR - LOGICAL INCLUSIVE OR
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode\fR	\fB\fCInstruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64\-Bit Mode\fR	\fB\fCCompat/Leg Mode\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
0C ib	OR AL, imm8	I	Valid	Valid	AL OR imm8.
0D iw	OR AX, imm16	I	Valid	Valid	AX OR imm16.
0D id	OR EAX, imm32	I	Valid	Valid	EAX OR imm32.
REX.W + 0D id	OR RAX, imm32	I	Valid	N.E.	RAX OR imm32 (sign\-extended).
80 /1 ib	OR r/m8, imm8	MI	Valid	Valid	imm8.
REX + 80 /1 ib	OR r/m8*, imm8	MI	Valid	N.E.	imm8.
81 /1 iw	OR r/m16, imm16	MI	Valid	Valid	imm16.
81 /1 id	OR r/m32, imm32	MI	Valid	Valid	imm32.
REX.W + 81 /1 id	OR r/m64, imm32	MI	Valid	N.E.	imm32 (sign\-extended).
83 /1 ib	OR r/m16, imm8	MI	Valid	Valid	imm8 (sign\-extended).
83 /1 ib	OR r/m32, imm8	MI	Valid	Valid	imm8 (sign\-extended).
REX.W + 83 /1 ib	OR r/m64, imm8	MI	Valid	N.E.	imm8 (sign\-extended).
08 /r	OR r/m8, r8	MR	Valid	Valid	r8.
REX + 08 /r	OR r/m8*, r8*	MR	Valid	N.E.	r8.
09 /r	OR r/m16, r16	MR	Valid	Valid	r16.
09 /r	OR r/m32, r32	MR	Valid	Valid	r32.
REX.W + 09 /r	OR r/m64, r64	MR	Valid	N.E.	r64.
0A /r	OR r8, r/m8	RM	Valid	Valid	r/m8.
REX + 0A /r	OR r8*, r/m8*	RM	Valid	N.E.	r/m8.
0B /r	OR r16, r/m16	RM	Valid	Valid	r/m16.
0B /r	OR r32, r/m32	RM	Valid	Valid	r/m32.
REX.W + 0B /r	OR r64, r/m64	RM	Valid	N.E.	r/m64.
.TE

.PP
.RS

.PP
*
In64\-bitmode,r/m8cannotbeencodedtoaccessthefollowingbyteregistersifaREXprefixisused:AH,BH,CH,DH.

.RE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
Op/En	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
I	AL/AX/EAX/RAX	imm8/16/32	NA	NA
MI	ModRM:r/m (r, w)	imm8/16/32	NA	NA
MR	ModRM:r/m (r, w)	ModRM:reg (r)	NA	NA
RM	ModRM:reg (r, w)	ModRM:r/m (r)	NA	NA
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Performs a bitwise inclusive OR operation between the destination
(first) and source (second) operands and stores the result in the
destination operand location. The source operand can be an immediate, a
register, or a memory location; the destination operand can be a
register or a memory location. (However, two memory operands cannot be
used in one instruction.) Each bit of the result of the OR instruction
is set to 0 if both corresponding bits of the first and second operands
are 0; otherwise, each bit is set to 1.

.PP
This instruction can be used with a LOCK prefix to allow the instruction
to be executed atomically.

.PP
In 64\-bit mode, the instruction’s default operation size is 32 bits.
Using a REX prefix in the form of REX.R permits access to additional
registers (R8\-R15). Using a REX prefix in the form of REX.W promotes
operation to 64 bits. See the summary chart at the beginning of this
section for encoding data and limits.

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
DEST ← DEST OR SRC;

.fi
.RE

.SH FLAGS AFFECTED
.PP
The OF and CF flags are cleared; the SF, ZF, and PF flags are set
according to the result. The state of the AF flag is undefined.

.SH PROTECTED MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If the destination operand points to a non\-writable segment.
T}
	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
	T{
If the DS, ES, FS, or GS register contains a NULL segment selector.
T}
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made while the current privilege level is 3.
T}
#UD	T{
If the LOCK prefix is used but the destination is not a memory operand.
T}
.TE

.SH REAL\-ADDRESS MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
#SS	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#UD	T{
If the LOCK prefix is used but the destination is not a memory operand.
T}
.TE

.SH VIRTUAL\-8086 MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made.
T}
#UD	T{
If the LOCK prefix is used but the destination is not a memory operand.
T}
.TE

.SH COMPATIBILITY MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same as for protected mode exceptions.

.SH 64\-BIT MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory address referencing the SS segment is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#GP(0)	T{
If the memory address is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made while the current privilege level is 3.
T}
#UD	T{
If the LOCK prefix is used but the destination is not a memory operand.
T}
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
