.nh
.TH "X86-VPBROADCASTM" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
VPBROADCASTM - BROADCAST MASK TO VECTOR REGISTER
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode/Instruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64/32 bit Mode Support\fR	\fB\fCCPUID Feature Flag\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
T{
EVEX.128.F3.0F38.W1 2A /r VPBROADCASTMB2Q xmm1, k1
T}
	RM	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512CD	T{
Broadcast low byte value in k1 to two locations in xmm1.
T}
T{
EVEX.256.F3.0F38.W1 2A /r VPBROADCASTMB2Q ymm1, k1
T}
	RM	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512CD	T{
Broadcast low byte value in k1 to four locations in ymm1.
T}
T{
EVEX.512.F3.0F38.W1 2A /r VPBROADCASTMB2Q zmm1, k1
T}
	RM	V/V	AVX512CD	T{
Broadcast low byte value in k1 to eight locations in zmm1.
T}
T{
EVEX.128.F3.0F38.W0 3A /r VPBROADCASTMW2D xmm1, k1
T}
	RM	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512CD	T{
Broadcast low word value in k1 to four locations in xmm1.
T}
T{
EVEX.256.F3.0F38.W0 3A /r VPBROADCASTMW2D ymm1, k1
T}
	RM	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512CD	T{
Broadcast low word value in k1 to eight locations in ymm1.
T}
T{
EVEX.512.F3.0F38.W0 3A /r VPBROADCASTMW2D zmm1, k1
T}
	RM	V/V	AVX512CD	T{
Broadcast low word value in k1 to sixteen locations in zmm1.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
Op/En	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
RM	ModRM:reg (w)	ModRM:r/m (r)	NA	NA
.TE

.SS Description
.PP
Broadcasts the zero\-extended 64/32 bit value of the low byte/word of the
source operand (the second operand) to each 64/32 bit element of the
destination operand (the first operand). The source operand is an opmask
register. The destination operand is a ZMM register (EVEX.512), YMM
register (EVEX.256), or XMM register (EVEX.128).

.PP
EVEX.vvvv is reserved and must be 1111b otherwise instructions will
#UD.

.SS Operation
.SS VPBROADCASTMB2Q
.PP
.RS

.nf
(KL, VL) = (2, 128), (4, 256), (8, 512)
FOR j←0 TO KL\-1
    i←j*64
    DEST[i+63:i] ← ZeroExtend(SRC[7:0])
ENDFOR
DEST[MAXVL\-1:VL] ← 0

.fi
.RE

.SS VPBROADCASTMW2D
.PP
.RS

.nf
(KL, VL) = (4, 128), (8, 256),(16, 512)
FOR j←0 TO KL\-1
    i←j*32
    DEST[i+31:i] ← ZeroExtend(SRC[15:0])
ENDFOR
DEST[MAXVL\-1:VL] ← 0

.fi
.RE

.SS Intel C/C++ Compiler Intrinsic Equivalent
.PP
.RS

.nf
VPBROADCASTMB2Q \_\_m512i \_mm512\_broadcastmb\_epi64( \_\_mmask8);

VPBROADCASTMW2D \_\_m512i \_mm512\_broadcastmw\_epi32( \_\_mmask16);

VPBROADCASTMB2Q \_\_m256i \_mm256\_broadcastmb\_epi64( \_\_mmask8);

VPBROADCASTMW2D \_\_m256i \_mm256\_broadcastmw\_epi32( \_\_mmask8);

VPBROADCASTMB2Q \_\_m128i \_mm\_broadcastmb\_epi64( \_\_mmask8);

VPBROADCASTMW2D \_\_m128i \_mm\_broadcastmw\_epi32( \_\_mmask8);

.fi
.RE

.SS SIMD Floating\-Point Exceptions
.PP
None

.SS Other Exceptions
.PP
EVEX\-encoded instruction, see Exceptions Type E6NF.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
