.nh
.TH "X86-ADD" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
ADD - ADD
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode\fR	\fB\fCInstruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64\-bit Mode\fR	\fB\fCCompat/Leg Mode\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
04 ib	ADD AL, imm8	I	Valid	Valid	Add imm8 to AL.
05 iw	ADD AX, imm16	I	Valid	Valid	Add imm16 to AX.
05 id	ADD EAX, imm32	I	Valid	Valid	Add imm32 to EAX.
REX.W + 05 id	ADD RAX, imm32	I	Valid	N.E.	T{
Add imm32 sign\-extended to 64\-bits to RAX.
T}
80 /0 ib	ADD r/m8, imm8	MI	Valid	Valid	Add r/m8.
REX + 80 /0 ib	ADD , imm8	MI	Valid	N.E.	Add r/m8.
81 /0 iw	ADD r/m16, imm16	MI	Valid	Valid	Add r/m16.
81 /0 id	ADD r/m32, imm32	MI	Valid	Valid	Add r/m32.
REX.W + 81 /0 id	ADD r/m64, imm32	MI	Valid	N.E.	Add r/m64.
83 /0 ib	ADD r/m16, imm8	MI	Valid	Valid	Add r/m16.
83 /0 ib	ADD r/m32, imm8	MI	Valid	Valid	Add r/m32.
REX.W + 83 /0 ib	ADD r/m64, imm8	MI	Valid	N.E.	Add r/m64.
00 /r	ADD r/m8, r8	MR	Valid	Valid	Add r/m8.
REX + 00 /r	ADD r/m8*	MR	Valid	N.E.	Add r/m8.
01 /r	ADD r/m16, r16	MR	Valid	Valid	Add r/m16.
01 /r	ADD r/m32, r32	MR	Valid	Valid	Add r32 to r/m32.
REX.W + 01 /r	ADD r/m64, r64	MR	Valid	N.E.	Add r64 to r/m64.
02 /r	ADD r8, r/m8	RM	Valid	Valid	Add r8.
REX + 02 /r	ADD r8*	RM	Valid	N.E.	Add r8.
03 /r	ADD r16, r/m16	RM	Valid	Valid	Add r16.
03 /r	ADD r32, r/m32	RM	Valid	Valid	Add r32.
REX.W + 03 /r	ADD r64, r/m64	RM	Valid	N.E.	Add r64.
.TE

.PP
.RS

.PP
*In 64\-bit mode, r/m8 can not be encoded to access the following byte
registers if a REX prefix is used: AH, BH, CH, DH.

.RE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
Op/En	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
RM	ModRM:reg (r, w)	ModRM:r/m (r)	NA	NA
MR	ModRM:r/m (r, w)	ModRM:reg (r)	NA	NA
MI	ModRM:r/m (r, w)	imm8/16/32	NA	NA
I	AL/AX/EAX/RAX	imm8/16/32	NA	NA
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Adds the destination operand (first operand) and the source operand
(second operand) and then stores the result in the destination operand.
The destination operand can be a register or a memory location; the
source operand can be an immediate, a register, or a memory location.
(However, two memory operands cannot be used in one instruction.) When
an immediate value is used as an operand, it is sign\-extended to the
length of the destination operand format.

.PP
The ADD instruction performs integer addition. It evaluates the result
for both signed and unsigned integer operands and sets the CF and OF
flags to indicate a carry (overflow) in the signed or unsigned result,
respectively. The SF flag indicates the sign of the signed result.

.PP
This instruction can be used with a LOCK prefix to allow the instruction
to be executed atomically.

.PP
In 64\-bit mode, the instruction’s default operation size is 32 bits.
Using a REX prefix in the form of REX.R permits access to additional
registers (R8\-R15). Using a REX prefix in the form of REX.W promotes
operation to 64 bits. See the summary chart at the beginning of this
section for encoding data and limits.

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
DEST ← DEST + SRC;

.fi
.RE

.SH FLAGS AFFECTED
.PP
The OF, SF, ZF, AF, CF, and PF flags are set according to the result.

.SH PROTECTED MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If the destination is located in a non\-writable segment.
T}
	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
	T{
If the DS, ES, FS, or GS register is used to access memory and it contains a NULL segment selector.
T}
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made while the current privilege level is 3.
T}
#UD	T{
If the LOCK prefix is used but the destination is not a memory operand.
T}
.TE

.SH REAL\-ADDRESS MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
#SS	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#UD	T{
If the LOCK prefix is used but the destination is not a memory operand.
T}
.TE

.SH VIRTUAL\-8086 MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made.
T}
#UD	T{
If the LOCK prefix is used but the destination is not a memory operand.
T}
.TE

.SH COMPATIBILITY MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH 64\-BIT MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory address referencing the SS segment is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#GP(0)	T{
If the memory address is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made while the current privilege level is 3.
T}
#UD	T{
If the LOCK prefix is used but the destination is not a memory operand.
T}
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
