.nh
.TH "X86-XGETBV" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
XGETBV - GET VALUE OF EXTENDED CONTROL REGISTER
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode\fR	\fB\fCInstruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64\-Bit Mode\fR	\fB\fCCompat/Leg Mode\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
NP 0F 01 D0	XGETBV	ZO	Valid	Valid	T{
Reads an XCR specified by ECX into EDX:EAX.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
Op/En	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
ZO	NA	NA	NA	NA
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Reads the contents of the extended control register (XCR) specified in
the ECX register into registers EDX:EAX. (On processors that support the
Intel 64 architecture, the high\-order 32 bits of RCX are ignored.) The
EDX register is loaded with the high\-order 32 bits of the XCR and the
EAX register is loaded with the low\-order 32 bits. (On processors that
support the Intel 64 architecture, the high\-order 32 bits of each of RAX
and RDX are cleared.) If fewer than 64 bits are implemented in the XCR
being read, the values returned to EDX:EAX in unimplemented bit
locations are undefined.

.PP
XCR0 is supported on any processor that supports the XGETBV instruction.
If CPUID.(EAX=0DH,ECX=1):EAX.XG1[bit 2] = 1, executing XGETBV with ECX
= 1 returns in EDX:EAX the logicalAND of XCR0 and the current value of
the XINUSE state\-component bitmap. This allows software to discover the
state of the init optimization used by XSAVEOPT and XSAVES. See Chapter
13, “Managing State Using the XSAVE Feature Set‚” in Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual, Volume 1.

.PP
Use of any other value for ECX results in a general\-protection (#GP)
exception.

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
EDX:EAX ← XCR[ECX];

.fi
.RE

.SH FLAGS AFFECTED
.PP
None.

.SH INTEL C/C++ COMPILER INTRINSIC EQUIVALENT
.PP
.RS

.nf
XGETBV: unsigned \_\_int64 \_xgetbv( unsigned int);

.fi
.RE

.SH PROTECTED MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If an invalid XCR is specified in ECX (includes ECX = 1 if CPUID.(EAX=0DH,ECX=1):EAX.XG1
T}
[
bit 2
]
 = 0).
#UD	If CPUID.01H:ECX.XSAVE
[
bit 26
]
 = 0.
	If CR4.OSXSAVE
[
bit 18
]
 = 0.
	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH REAL\-ADDRESS MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If an invalid XCR is specified in ECX (includes ECX = 1 if CPUID.(EAX=0DH,ECX=1):EAX.XG1
T}
[
bit 2
]
 = 0).
#UD	If CPUID.01H:ECX.XSAVE
[
bit 26
]
 = 0.
	If CR4.OSXSAVE
[
bit 18
]
 = 0.
	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH VIRTUAL\-8086 MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH COMPATIBILITY MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH 64\-BIT MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
