.nh
.TH "X86-SLDT" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
SLDT - STORE LOCAL DESCRIPTOR TABLE REGISTER
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode*\fR	\fB\fCInstruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64\-Bit Mode\fR	\fB\fCCompat/Leg Mode\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
0F 00 /0	SLDT r/m16	M	Valid	Valid	T{
Stores segment selector from LDTR in r/m16.
T}
REX.W + 0F 00 /0	SLDT r64/m16	M	Valid	Valid	T{
Stores segment selector from LDTR in r64/m16.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
Op/En	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
M	ModRM:r/m (w)	NA	NA	NA
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Stores the segment selector from the local descriptor table register
(LDTR) in the destination operand. The destination operand can be a
general\-purpose register or a memory location. The segment selector
stored with this instruction points to the segment descriptor (located
in the GDT) for the current LDT. This instruction can only be executed
in protected mode.

.PP
Outside IA\-32e mode, when the destination operand is a 32\-bit register,
the 16\-bit segment selector is copied into the low\-order 16 bits of the
register. The high\-order 16 bits of the register are cleared for the
Pentium 4, Intel Xeon, and P6 family processors. They are undefined for
Pentium, Intel486, and Intel386 processors. When the destination operand
is a memory location, the segment selector is written to memory as a
16\-bit quantity, regardless of the operand size.

.PP
In compatibility mode, when the destination operand is a 32\-bit
register, the 16\-bit segment selector is copied into the low\-order 16
bits of the register. The high\-order 16 bits of the register are
cleared. When the destination operand is a memory location, the segment
selector is written to memory as a 16\-bit quantity, regardless of the
operand size.

.PP
In 64\-bit mode, using a REX prefix in the form of REX.R permits access
to additional registers (R8\-R15). The behavior of SLDT with a 64\-bit
register is to zero\-extend the 16\-bit selector and store it in the
register. If the destination is memory and operand size is 64, SLDT will
write the 16\-bit selector to memory as a 16\-bit quantity, regardless of
the operand size.

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
DEST ← LDTR(SegmentSelector);

.fi
.RE

.SH FLAGS AFFECTED
.PP
None.

.SH PROTECTED MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If the destination is located in a non\-writable segment.
T}
	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
	T{
If the DS, ES, FS, or GS register is used to access memory and it contains a NULL segment selector.
T}
	If CR4.UMIP = 1 and CPL 
\&gt;
 0.
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made while CPL = 3.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH REAL\-ADDRESS MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#UD	T{
The SLDT instruction is not recognized in real\-address mode.
T}
.TE

.SH VIRTUAL\-8086 MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#UD	T{
The SLDT instruction is not recognized in virtual\-8086 mode.
T}
.TE

.SH COMPATIBILITY MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH 64\-BIT MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory address referencing the SS segment is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#GP(0)	T{
If the memory address is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
	If CR4.UMIP = 1 and CPL 
\&gt;
 0.
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made while CPL = 3.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
