.nh
.TH "X86-VRNDSCALEPS" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
VRNDSCALEPS - ROUND PACKED FLOAT32 VALUES TO INCLUDE A GIVEN NUMBER OF FRACTION BITS
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode/Instruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64/32 bit Mode Support\fR	\fB\fCCPUID Feature Flag\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
T{
EVEX.128.66.0F3A.W0 08 /r ib VRNDSCALEPS xmm1 {k1}{z}, xmm2/m128/m32bcst, imm8
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512F	T{
Rounds packed single\-precision floating point values in xmm2/m128/m32bcst to a number of fraction bits specified by the imm8 field. Stores the result in xmm1 register. Under writemask.
T}
T{
EVEX.256.66.0F3A.W0 08 /r ib VRNDSCALEPS ymm1 {k1}{z}, ymm2/m256/m32bcst, imm8
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512F	T{
Rounds packed single\-precision floating point values in ymm2/m256/m32bcst to a number of fraction bits specified by the imm8 field. Stores the result in ymm1 register. Under writemask.
T}
T{
EVEX.512.66.0F3A.W0 08 /r ib VRNDSCALEPS zmm1 {k1}{z}, zmm2/m512/m32bcst{sae}, imm8
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512F	T{
Rounds packed single\-precision floating\-point values in zmm2/m512/m32bcst to a number of fraction bits specified by the imm8 field. Stores the result in zmm1 register using writemask.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
Op/En	Tuple Type	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
A	Full	ModRM:reg (w)	ModRM:r/m (r)	Imm8	NA
.TE

.SS Description
.PP
Round the single\-precision floating\-point values in the source operand
by the rounding mode specified in the immediate operand (see Figure
5\-29) and places the result in the destination operand.

.PP
The destination operand (the first operand) is a ZMM register
conditionally updated according to the writemask. The source operand
(the second operand) can be a ZMM register, a 512\-bit memory location,
or a 512\-bit vector broadcasted from a 32\-bit memory location.

.PP
The rounding process rounds the input to an integral value, plus number
bits of fraction that are specified by imm8[7:4] (to be included in
the result) and returns the result as a single\-precision floating\-point
value.

.PP
It should be noticed that no overflow is induced while executing this
instruction (although the source is scaled by the imm8[7:4] value).

.PP
The immediate operand also specifies control fields for the rounding
operation, three bit fields are defined and shown in the “Immediate
Control Description” figure below. Bit 3 of the immediate byte controls
the processor behavior for a precision exception, bit 2 selects the
source of rounding mode control. Bits 1:0 specify a non\-sticky
rounding\-mode value (Immediate control table below lists the encoded
values for rounding\-mode field).

.PP
The Precision Floating\-Point Exception is signaled according to the
immediate operand. If any source operand is an SNaN then it will be
converted to a QNaN. If DAZ is set to ‘1 then denormals will be
converted to zero before rounding.

.PP
The sign of the result of this instruction is preserved, including the
sign of zero.

.PP
The formula of the operation on each data element for VRNDSCALEPS is

.PP
ROUND(x) = 2M, round\_ctrl),

.PP
round\_ctrl = imm[3:0];

.PP
M=imm[7:4];

.PP
The operation of x*2M is computed as if the exponent range is unlimited
(i.e. no overflow ever occurs).

.PP
VRNDSCALEPS is a more general form of the VEX\-encoded VROUNDPS
instruction. In VROUNDPS, the formula of the operation on each element
is

.PP
ROUND(x) = Round\_to\_INT(x, round\_ctrl),

.PP
round\_ctrl = imm[3:0];

.PP
Note: EVEX.vvvv is reserved and must be 1111b, otherwise instructions
will #UD.

.PP
Handling of special case of input values are listed in Table 5\-25.

.SS Operation
.PP
.RS

.nf
RoundToIntegerSP(SRC[31:0], imm8[7:0]) {
    if (imm8[2] = 1)
        rounding\_direction←MXCSR:RC
                    ; get round control from MXCSR
    else
        rounding\_direction←imm8[1:0]
    M←imm8[7:4] ; get the scaling factor
    case (rounding\_direction)
    00: TMP[31:0]←round\_to\_nearest\_even\_integer(2M*SRC[31:0])
    01: TMP[31:0]←round\_to\_equal\_or\_smaller\_integer(2M*SRC[31:0])
    10: TMP[31:0]←round\_to\_equal\_or\_larger\_integer(2M*SRC[31:0])
    11: TMP[31:0]←round\_to\_nearest\_smallest\_magnitude\_integer(2M*SRC[31:0])
    ESAC;
    Dest[31:0]←2\-M
    if (imm8[3] = 0) Then ; check SPE
        if (SRC[31:0] != Dest[31:0]) Then
                    ; check precision lost
            set\_precision() ; set #PE
        FI;
    FI;
    return(Dest[31:0])
}
VRNDSCALEPS (EVEX encoded versions)
(KL, VL) = (4, 128), (8, 256), (16, 512)
IF *src is a memory operand*
    THEN TMP\_SRC←BROADCAST32(SRC, VL, k1)
    ELSE TMP\_SRC←SRC
FI;
FOR j←0 TO KL\-1
    i←j * 32
    IF k1[j] OR *no writemask*
        THEN DEST[i+31:i]←RoundToIntegerSP(TMP\_SRC[i+31:i]), imm8[7:0])
    ELSE
        IF *merging\-masking* ; merging\-masking
            THEN *DEST[i+31:i] remains unchanged*
            ELSE ; zeroing\-masking
                DEST[i+31:i] ← 0
        FI;
    FI;
ENDFOR;
DEST[MAXVL\-1:VL] ← 0

.fi
.RE

.SS Intel C/C++ Compiler Intrinsic Equivalent
.PP
.RS

.nf
VRNDSCALEPS \_\_m512 \_mm512\_roundscale\_ps( \_\_m512 a, int imm);

VRNDSCALEPS \_\_m512 \_mm512\_roundscale\_round\_ps( \_\_m512 a, int imm, int sae);

VRNDSCALEPS \_\_m512 \_mm512\_mask\_roundscale\_ps(\_\_m512 s, \_\_mmask16 k, \_\_m512 a, int imm);

VRNDSCALEPS \_\_m512 \_mm512\_mask\_roundscale\_round\_ps(\_\_m512 s, \_\_mmask16 k, \_\_m512 a, int imm, int sae);

VRNDSCALEPS \_\_m512 \_mm512\_maskz\_roundscale\_ps( \_\_mmask16 k, \_\_m512 a, int imm);

VRNDSCALEPS \_\_m512 \_mm512\_maskz\_roundscale\_round\_ps( \_\_mmask16 k, \_\_m512 a, int imm, int sae);

VRNDSCALEPS \_\_m256 \_mm256\_roundscale\_ps( \_\_m256 a, int imm);

VRNDSCALEPS \_\_m256 \_mm256\_mask\_roundscale\_ps(\_\_m256 s, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m256 a, int imm);

VRNDSCALEPS \_\_m256 \_mm256\_maskz\_roundscale\_ps( \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m256 a, int imm);

VRNDSCALEPS \_\_m128 \_mm\_roundscale\_ps( \_\_m256 a, int imm);

VRNDSCALEPS \_\_m128 \_mm\_mask\_roundscale\_ps(\_\_m128 s, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m128 a, int imm);

VRNDSCALEPS \_\_m128 \_mm\_maskz\_roundscale\_ps( \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m128 a, int imm);

.fi
.RE

.SS SIMD Floating\-Point Exceptions
.PP
Invalid, Precision

.PP
If SPE is enabled, precision exception is not reported (regardless of
MXCSR exception mask).

.SS Other Exceptions
.PP
See Exceptions Type E2.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
