.nh
.TH "X86-FCHS" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
FCHS - CHANGE SIGN
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode\fR	\fB\fCInstruction\fR	\fB\fC64\-Bit Mode\fR	\fB\fCCompat/Leg Mode\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
D9 E0	FCHS	Valid	Valid	Complements sign of ST(0).
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Complements the sign bit of ST(0). This operation changes a positive
value into a negative value of equal magnitude or vice versa. The
following table shows the results obtained when changing the sign of
various classes of numbers.

.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
\fB\fCST(0) SRC\fR	\fB\fCST(0) DEST\fR
−∞	+∞
−F	+F
−0	+0
+0	−0
+F	−F
+∞	−∞
NaN	NaN
.TE

.PP
Table 3\-20. FCHS Results

.PP
.RS

.PP
* Fmeansfinitefloating\-pointvalue.

.RE

.PP
This instruction’s operation is the same in non\-64\-bit modes and 64\-bit
mode.

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
SignBit(ST(0)) ← NOT (SignBit(ST(0)));

.fi
.RE

.SH FPU FLAGS AFFECTED
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
C1	Set to 0.
C0, C2, C3	Undefined.
.TE

.SH FLOATING\-POINT EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#IS	Stack underflow occurred.
.TE

.SH PROTECTED MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#NM	CR0.EM
[
bit 2
]
 or CR0.TS
[
bit 3
]
 = 1.
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH REAL\-ADDRESS MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH VIRTUAL\-8086 MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH COMPATIBILITY MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH 64\-BIT MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
