.nh
.TH "X86-VMREAD" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
VMREAD - READ FIELD FROM VIRTUAL-MACHINE CONTROL STRUCTURE
.TS
allbox;
l l l 
l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode/Instruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
NP 0F 78 VMREAD r/m64, r64	MR	T{
Reads a specified VMCS field (in 64\-bit mode).
T}
NP 0F 78 VMREAD r/m32, r32	MR	T{
Reads a specified VMCS field (outside 64\-bit mode).
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
Op/En	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
MR	ModRM:r/m (w)	ModRM:reg (r)	NA	NA
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Reads a specified field from a VMCS and stores it into a specified
destination operand (register or memory). In VMX root operation, the
instruction reads from the current VMCS. If executed in VMX non\-root
operation, the instruction reads from the VMCS referenced by the VMCS
link pointer field in the current VMCS.

.PP
The VMCS field is specified by the VMCS\-field encoding contained in the
register source operand. Outside IA\-32e mode, the source operand has 32
bits, regardless of the value of CS.D. In 64\-bit mode, the source
operand has 64 bits.

.PP
The effective size of the destination operand, which may be a register
or in memory, is always 32 bits outside IA\-32e mode (the setting of CS.D
is ignored with respect to operand size) and 64 bits in 64\-bit mode. If
the VMCS field specified by the source operand is shorter than this
effective operand size, the high bits of the destination operand are
cleared to 0. If the VMCS field is longer, then the high bits of the
field are not read.

.PP
Note that any faults resulting from accessing a memory destination
operand can occur only after determining, in the operation section
below, that the relevant VMCS pointer is valid and that the specified
VMCS field is supported.

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
IF (not in VMX operation) or (CR0.PE = 0) or (RFLAGS.VM = 1) or (IA32\_EFER.LMA = 1 and CS.L = 0)
    THEN #UD;
ELSIF in VMX non\-root operation AND (“VMCS shadowing” is 0 OR source operand sets bits in range 63:15 OR
VMREAD bit corresponding to bits 14:0 of source operand is 1)4
    THEN VMexit;
ELSIF CPL > 0
    THEN #GP(0);
ELSIF (in VMX root operation AND current\-VMCS pointer is not valid) OR
(in VMX non\-root operation AND VMCS link pointer is not valid)
    THEN VMfailInvalid;
ELSIF source operand does not correspond to any VMCS field
    THEN VMfailValid(VMREAD/VMWRITE from/to unsupported VMCS component);
    ELSE
        IF in VMX root operation
            THEN destination operand ← contents of field indexed by source operand in current VMCS;
            ELSE destination operand ← contents of field indexed by source operand in VMCS referenced by VMCS link pointer;
        FI;
        VMsucceed;
FI;

.fi
.RE

.PP
.RS

.PP
4\&. The VMREAD bit for a source operand is defined as follows. Let
addr | (x » 3).

.RE

.SH FLAGS AFFECTED
.PP
See the operation section and Section 30.2.

.SH PROTECTED MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If the current privilege level is not 0.
T}
	T{
If a memory destination operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
	T{
If the DS, ES, FS, or GS register contains an unusable segment.
T}
	T{
If the destination operand is located in a read\-only data segment or any code segment.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	T{
If a page fault occurs in accessing a memory destination operand.
T}
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory destination operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
	T{
If the SS register contains an unusable segment.
T}
#UD	If not in VMX operation.
.TE

.SH REAL\-ADDRESS MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#UD	T{
The VMREAD instruction is not recognized in real\-address mode.
T}
.TE

.SH VIRTUAL\-8086 MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#UD	T{
The VMREAD instruction is not recognized in virtual\-8086 mode.
T}
.TE

.SH COMPATIBILITY MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#UD	T{
The VMREAD instruction is not recognized in compatibility mode.
T}
.TE

.SH 64\-BIT MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If the current privilege level is not 0.
T}
	T{
If the memory destination operand is in the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segments and the memory address is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	T{
If a page fault occurs in accessing a memory destination operand.
T}
#SS(0)	T{
If the memory destination operand is in the SS segment and the memory address is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#UD	If not in VMX operation.
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
