.nh
.TH "X86-MOVNTQ" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
MOVNTQ - STORE OF QUADWORD USING NON-TEMPORAL HINT
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode\fR	\fB\fCInstruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64\-Bit Mode\fR	\fB\fCCompat/Leg Mode\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
NP 0F E7 /r	MOVNTQ mm	MR	Valid	Valid	T{
Move quadword from m64 using non\-temporal hint.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
Op/En	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
MR	ModRM:r/m (w)	ModRM:reg (r)	NA	NA
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Moves the quadword in the source operand (second operand) to the
destination operand (first operand) using a non\-temporal hint to
minimize cache pollution during the write to memory. The source operand
is an MMX technology register, which is assumed to contain packed
integer data (packed bytes, words, or doublewords). The destination
operand is a 64\-bit memory location.

.PP
The non\-temporal hint is implemented by using a write combining (WC)
memory type protocol when writing the data to memory. Using this
protocol, the processor does not write the data into the cache
hierarchy, nor does it fetch the corresponding cache line from memory
into the cache hierarchy. The memory type of the region being written to
can override the non\-temporal hint, if the memory address specified for
the non\-temporal store is in an uncacheable (UC) or write protected (WP)
memory region. For more information on non\-temporal stores, see “Caching
of Temporal vs. Non\-Temporal Data” in Chapter 10 in the Intel® 64 and
IA\-32 Architectures Software Developer’s Manual, Volume 1.

.PP
Because the WC protocol uses a weakly\-ordered memory consistency model,
a fencing operation implemented with the SFENCE or MFENCE instruction
should be used in conjunction with MOVNTQ instructions if multiple
processors might use different memory types to read/write the
destination memory locations.

.PP
This instruction’s operation is the same in non\-64\-bit modes and 64\-bit
mode.

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
DEST ← SRC;

.fi
.RE

.SH INTEL C/C++ COMPILER INTRINSIC EQUIVALENT
.PP
.RS

.nf
MOVNTQ: void \_mm\_stream\_pi(\_\_m64 * p, \_\_m64 a)

.fi
.RE

.SH SIMD FLOATING\-POINT EXCEPTIONS
.PP
None.

.SH OTHER EXCEPTIONS
.PP
See Table 22\-8, “Exception Conditions
for Legacy SIMD/MMX Instructions without FP Exception,” in the Intel® 64
and IA\-32 Architectures Software Developer’s Manual, Volume 3A.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
