.nh
.TH "X86-VFPCLASSPS" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
VFPCLASSPS - TESTS TYPES OF A PACKED FLOAT32 VALUES
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode/Instruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64/32 bit Mode Support\fR	\fB\fCCPUID Feature Flag\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
T{
EVEX.128.66.0F3A.W0 66 /r ib VFPCLASSPS k2 {k1}, xmm2/m128/m32bcst, imm8
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512DQ	T{
Tests the input for the following categories: NaN, +0, \-0, +Infinity, \-Infinity, denormal, finite negative. The immediate field provides a mask bit for each of these category tests. The masked test results are OR\-ed together to form a mask result.
T}
T{
EVEX.256.66.0F3A.W0 66 /r ib VFPCLASSPS k2 {k1}, ymm2/m256/m32bcst, imm8
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512DQ	T{
Tests the input for the following categories: NaN, +0, \-0, +Infinity, \-Infinity, denormal, finite negative. The immediate field provides a mask bit for each of these category tests. The masked test results are OR\-ed together to form a mask result.
T}
T{
EVEX.512.66.0F3A.W0 66 /r ib VFPCLASSPS k2 {k1}, zmm2/m512/m32bcst, imm8
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512DQ	T{
Tests the input for the following categories: NaN, +0, \-0, +Infinity, \-Infinity, denormal, finite negative. The immediate field provides a mask bit for each of these category tests. The masked test results are OR\-ed together to form a mask result.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
Op/En	Tuple Type	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
A	Full	ModRM:reg (w)	ModRM:r/m (r)	NA	NA
.TE

.SS Description
.PP
The FPCLASSPS instruction checks the packed single\-precision floating
point values for special categories, specified by the set bits in the
imm8 byte. Each set bit in imm8 specifies a category of floating\-point
values that the input data element is classified against. The classified
results of all specified categories of an input value are ORed together
to form the final boolean result for the input element. The result of
each element is written to the corresponding bit in a mask register k2
according to the writemask k1. Bits [MAX\_KL\-1:16/8/4] of the
destination are cleared.

.PP
The classification categories specified by imm8 are shown in Figure
5\-13. The classification test for each category is listed in Table 5\-13\&.

.PP
The source operand is a ZMM/YMM/XMM register, a 512/256/128\-bit memory
location, or a 512/256/128\-bit vector broadcasted from a 32\-bit memory
location.

.PP
EVEX.vvvv is reserved and must be 1111b otherwise instructions will
#UD.

.SS Operation
.PP
.RS

.nf
CheckFPClassSP (tsrc[31:0], imm8[7:0]){
    //* Start checking the source operand for special type *//
    NegNum ←tsrc[31];
    IF (tsrc[30:23]=0FFh) Then ExpAllOnes←1; FI;
    IF (tsrc[30:23]=0h) Then ExpAllZeros←1;
    IF (ExpAllZeros AND MXCSR.DAZ) Then
        MantAllZeros ← 1;
    ELSIF (tsrc[22:0]=0h) Then
        MantAllZeros ← 1;
    FI;
    ZeroNumber= ExpAllZeros AND MantAllZeros
    SignalingBit= tsrc[22];
    sNaN\_res←ExpAllOnes AND NOT(MantAllZeros) AND NOT(SignalingBit); // sNaN
    qNaN\_res←ExpAllOnes AND NOT(MantAllZeros) AND SignalingBit; // qNaN
    Pzero\_res←NOT(NegNum) AND ExpAllZeros AND MantAllZeros; // +0
    Nzero\_res←NegNum AND ExpAllZeros AND MantAllZeros; // \-0
    PInf\_res←NOT(NegNum) AND ExpAllOnes AND MantAllZeros; // +Inf
    NInf\_res←NegNum AND ExpAllOnes AND MantAllZeros; // \-Inf
    Denorm\_res←ExpAllZeros AND NOT(MantAllZeros); // denorm
    FinNeg\_res←NegNum AND NOT(ExpAllOnes) AND NOT(ZeroNumber); // \-finite
    bResult = ( imm8[0] AND qNaN\_res ) OR (imm8[1] AND Pzero\_res ) OR
            ( imm8[2] AND Nzero\_res ) OR ( imm8[3] AND PInf\_res ) OR
            ( imm8[4] AND NInf\_res ) OR ( imm8[5] AND Denorm\_res ) OR
            ( imm8[6] AND FinNeg\_res ) OR ( imm8[7] AND sNaN\_res );
    Return bResult;
} //* end of CheckSPClassSP() *//

.fi
.RE

.SS VFPCLASSPS (EVEX encoded versions)
.PP
.RS

.nf
(KL, VL) = (4, 128), (8, 256), (16, 512)
FOR j←0 TO KL\-1
    i←j * 32
    IF k1[j] OR *no writemask*
        THEN
            IF (EVEX.b == 1) AND (SRC *is memory*)
                THEN
                    DEST[j]←CheckFPClassDP(SRC1[31:0], imm8[7:0]);
                ELSE
                    DEST[j]←CheckFPClassDP(SRC1[i+31:i], imm8[7:0]);
            FI;
        ELSE DEST[j]←0 ; zeroing\-masking only
    FI;
ENDFOR
DEST[MAX\_KL\-1:KL] ← 0

.fi
.RE

.SS Intel C/C++ Compiler Intrinsic Equivalent
.PP
.RS

.nf
VFPCLASSPS \_\_mmask16 \_mm512\_fpclass\_ps\_mask( \_\_m512 a, int c);

VFPCLASSPS \_\_mmask16 \_mm512\_mask\_fpclass\_ps\_mask( \_\_mmask16 m, \_\_m512 a, int c)

VFPCLASSPS \_\_mmask8 \_mm256\_fpclass\_ps\_mask( \_\_m256 a, int c)

VFPCLASSPS \_\_mmask8 \_mm256\_mask\_fpclass\_ps\_mask( \_\_mmask8 m, \_\_m256 a, int c)

VFPCLASSPS \_\_mmask8 \_mm\_fpclass\_ps\_mask( \_\_m128 a, int c)

VFPCLASSPS \_\_mmask8 \_mm\_mask\_fpclass\_ps\_mask( \_\_mmask8 m, \_\_m128 a, int c)

.fi
.RE

.SS SIMD Floating\-Point Exceptions
.PP
None

.SS Other Exceptions
.PP
See Exceptions Type E4

.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#UD	If EVEX.vvvv != 1111B.
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
