.nh
.TH "X86-OUTS-OUTSB-OUTSW-OUTSD" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
OUTS-OUTSB-OUTSW-OUTSD - OUTPUT STRING TO PORT
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode*\fR	\fB\fCInstruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64\-Bit Mode\fR	\fB\fCCompat/Leg Mode\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
6E	OUTS DX, m8	ZO	Valid	Valid	T{
Output byte from memory location specified in DS:(E)SI or RSI to I/O port specified in DX
T}
*

*
\&.
6F	OUTS DX, m16	ZO	Valid	Valid	T{
Output word from memory location specified in DS:(E)SI or RSI to I/O port specified in DX
T}
*

*
\&.
6F	OUTS DX, m32	ZO	Valid	Valid	T{
Output doubleword from memory location specified in DS:(E)SI or RSI to I/O port specified in DX
T}
*

*
\&.
6E	OUTSB	ZO	Valid	Valid	T{
Output byte from memory location specified in DS:(E)SI or RSI to I/O port specified in DX
T}
*

*
\&.
6F	OUTSW	ZO	Valid	Valid	T{
Output word from memory location specified in DS:(E)SI or RSI to I/O port specified in DX
T}
*

*
\&.
6F	OUTSD	ZO	Valid	Valid	T{
Output doubleword from memory location specified in DS:(E)SI or RSI to I/O port specified in DX
T}
*

*
\&.
.TE

.PP
.RS

.PP
* SeeIA\-32ArchitectureCompatibilitysectionbelow.

.PP
** In 64\-bit mode, only 64\-bit (RSI) and 32\-bit (ESI) address sizes
are supported. In non\-64\-bit mode, only 32\-bit (ESI) and 16\-bit (SI)
address sizes are supported.

.RE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
Op/En	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
ZO	NA	NA	NA	NA
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Copies data from the source operand (second operand) to the I/O port
specified with the destination operand (first operand). The source
operand is a memory location, the address of which is read from either
the DS:SI, DS:ESI or the RSI registers (depending on the address\-size
attribute of the instruction, 16, 32 or 64, respectively). (The DS
segment may be overridden with a segment override prefix.) The
destination operand is an I/O port address (from 0 to 65,535) that is
read from the DX register. The size of the I/O port being accessed (that
is, the size of the source and destination operands) is determined by
the opcode for an 8\-bit I/O port or by the operand\-size attribute of the
instruction for a 16\- or 32\-bit I/O port.

.PP
At the assembly\-code level, two forms of this instruction are allowed:
the “explicit\-operands” form and the “no\-operands” form. The
explicit\-operands form (specified with the OUTS mnemonic) allows the
source and destination operands to be specified explicitly. Here, the
source operand should be a symbol that indicates the size of the I/O
port and the source address, and the destination operand must be DX.
This explicit\-operands form is provided to allow documentation; however,
note that the documentation provided by this form can be misleading.
That is, the source operand symbol must specify the correct location.
The location is always specified by the DS:(E)SI or RSI registers, which
must be loaded correctly before the OUTS instruction is executed.

.PP
The no\-operands form provides “short forms” of the byte, word, and
doubleword versions of the OUTS instructions. Here also DS:(E)SI is
assumed to be the source operand and DX is assumed to be the destination
operand. The size of the I/O port is specified with the choice of
mnemonic: OUTSB (byte), OUTSW (word), or OUTSD (doubleword).

.PP
After the byte, word, or doubleword is transferred from the memory
location to the I/O port, the SI/ESI/RSI register is incremented or
decremented automatically according to the setting of the DF flag in the
EFLAGS register. (If the DF flag is 0, the (E)SI register is
incremented; if the DF flag is 1, the SI/ESI/RSI register is
decremented.) The SI/ESI/RSI register is incremented or decremented by 1
for byte operations, by 2 for word operations, and by 4 for doubleword
operations.

.PP
The OUTS, OUTSB, OUTSW, and OUTSD instructions can be preceded by the
REP prefix for block input of ECX bytes, words, or doublewords. See
“REP/REPE/REPZ /REPNE/REPNZ—Repeat String Operation Prefix” in this
chapter for a description of the REP prefix. This instruction is only
useful for accessing I/O ports located in the processor’s I/O address
space. See Chapter 18, “Input/Output,” in the Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual, Volume 1, for more
information on accessing I/O ports in the I/O address space.

.PP
In 64\-bit mode, the default operand size is 32 bits; operand size is not
promoted by the use of REX.W. In 64\-bit mode, the default address size
is 64 bits, and 64\-bit address is specified using RSI by default. 32\-bit
address using ESI is support using the prefix 67H, but 16\-bit address is
not supported in 64\-bit mode.

.SH IA\-32 ARCHITECTURE COMPATIBILITY
.PP
After executing an OUTS, OUTSB, OUTSW, or OUTSD instruction, the Pentium
processor ensures that the EWBE# pin has been sampled active before it
begins to execute the next instruction. (Note that the instruction can
be prefetched if EWBE# is not active, but it will not be executed until
the EWBE# pin is sampled active.) Only the Pentium processor family has
the EWBE# pin.

.PP
For the Pentium 4, Intel®, and P6 processor family, upon execution of an
OUTS, OUTSB, OUTSW, or OUTSD instruction, the processor will not execute
the next instruction until the data phase of the transaction is
complete.

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
IF ((PE = 1) and ((CPL > IOPL) or (VM = 1)))
    THEN (* Protected mode with CPL > IOPL or virtual\-8086 mode *)
        IF (Any I/O Permission Bit for I/O port being accessed = 1)
            THEN (* I/O operation is not allowed *)
                #GP(0);
            ELSE (* I/O operation is allowed *)
                DEST ← SRC; (* Writes to I/O port *)
        FI;
    ELSE (Real Mode or Protected Mode or 64\-Bit Mode with CPL ≤ IOPL *)
        DEST ← SRC; (* Writes to I/O port *)
FI;
Byte transfer:
    IF 64\-bit mode
        Then
            IF 64\-Bit Address Size
                THEN
                    IF DF = 0
                        THEN RSI ← RSI RSI + 1;
                        ELSE RSI ← RSI or – 1;
                    FI;
                ELSE (* 32\-Bit Address Size *)
                    IF DF = 0
                        THEN ESI ← ESI + 1;
                        ELSE ESI ← ESI – 1;
                    FI;
            FI;
        ELSE
            IF DF = 0
                THEN (E)SI ← (E)SI + 1;
                ELSE (E)SI ← (E)SI – 1;
            FI;
    FI;
Word transfer:
    IF 64\-bit mode
        Then
            IF 64\-Bit Address Size
                THEN
                    IF DF = 0
                        THEN RSI ← RSI RSI + 2;
                        ELSE RSI ← RSI or – 2;
                    FI;
                ELSE (* 32\-Bit Address Size *)
                    IF DF = 0
                        THEN ESI ← ESI + 2;
                        ELSE ESI ← ESI – 2;
                    FI;
            FI;
        ELSE
            IF DF = 0
                THEN (E)SI ← (E)SI + 2;
                ELSE (E)SI ← (E)SI – 2;
            FI;
    FI;
Doubleword transfer:
    IF 64\-bit mode
        Then
            IF 64\-Bit Address Size
                THEN
                    IF DF = 0
                        THEN RSI ← RSI RSI + 4;
                        ELSE RSI ← RSI or – 4;
                    FI;
                ELSE (* 32\-Bit Address Size *)
                    IF DF = 0
                        THEN ESI ← ESI + 4;
                        ELSE ESI ← ESI – 4;
                    FI;
            FI;
        ELSE
            IF DF = 0
                THEN (E)SI ← (E)SI + 4;
                ELSE (E)SI ← (E)SI – 4;
            FI;
    FI;

.fi
.RE

.SH FLAGS AFFECTED
.PP
None

.SH PROTECTED MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If the CPL is greater than (has less privilege) the I/O privilege level (IOPL) and any of the corresponding I/O permission bits in TSS for the I/O port being accessed is 1.
T}
	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the limit of the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment.
T}
	T{
If the segment register contains a NULL segment selector.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made while the current privilege level is 3.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH REAL\-ADDRESS MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
#SS	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH VIRTUAL\-8086 MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If any of the I/O permission bits in the TSS for the I/O port being accessed is 1.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH COMPATIBILITY MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same as for protected mode exceptions.

.SH 64\-BIT MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory address referencing the SS segment is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#GP(0)	T{
If the CPL is greater than (has less privilege) the I/O privilege level (IOPL) and any of the corresponding I/O permission bits in TSS for the I/O port being accessed is 1.
T}
	T{
If the memory address is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made while the current privilege level is 3.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
