.nh
.TH "X86-F2XM1" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
F2XM1 - COMPUTE 2X–1
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode\fR	\fB\fCInstruction\fR	\fB\fC64\-Bit Mode\fR	\fB\fCCompat/Leg Mode\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
D9 F0	F2XM1	Valid	Valid	T{
Replace ST(0) with (2ST(0) – 1).
T}
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Computes the exponential value of 2 to the power of the source operand
minus 1. The source operand is located in register ST(0) and the result
is also stored in ST(0). The value of the source operand must lie in the
range –1.0 to +1.0. If the source value is outside this range, the
result is undefined.

.PP
The following table shows the results obtained when computing the
exponential value of various classes of numbers, assuming that neither
overflow nor underflow occurs.

.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
\fB\fCST(0) SRC\fR	\fB\fCST(0) DEST\fR
− 1.0 to −0	− 0.5 to − 0
−0	−0
+0	+0
+ 0 to +1.0	
+
 0 to 1.0
.TE

.PP
Table 3\-16. Results Obtained from F2XM1

.PP
Values other than 2 can be exponentiated using the following formula:

.PP
xy ←\\ 2(y ∗ log2x)

.PP
This instruction’s operation is the same in non\-64\-bit modes and 64\-bit
mode.

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
ST(0) ← (2ST(0) − 1);

.fi
.RE

.SH FPU FLAGS AFFECTED
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
C1	T{
Set to 0 if stack underflow occurred.
T}
	T{
Set if result was rounded up; cleared otherwise.
T}
C0, C2, C3	Undefined.
.TE

.SH FLOATING\-POINT EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#IS	Stack underflow occurred.
#IA	T{
Source operand is an SNaN value or unsupported format.
T}
#D	Source is a denormal value.
#U	T{
Result is too small for destination format.
T}
#P	T{
Value cannot be represented exactly in destination format.
T}
.TE

.SH PROTECTED MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#NM	CR0.EM
[
bit 2
]
 or CR0.TS
[
bit 3
]
 = 1.
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH REAL\-ADDRESS MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH VIRTUAL\-8086 MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH COMPATIBILITY MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH 64\-BIT MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
