.nh
.TH "X86-ENCLV" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
ENCLV - EXECUTE AN ENCLAVE VMM FUNCTION OF SPECIFIED LEAF NUMBER
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode/Instruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64/32 bit Mode Support\fR	\fB\fCCPUID Feature Flag\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
NP 0F 01 C0 ENCLV	NP	V/V	NA	T{
This instruction is used to execute privileged SGX leaf functions that are reserved for VMM use. They are used for managing the enclaves.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
Op/En	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Implicit Register Operands
NP	NA	NA	NA	See Section 40.3
.TE

.SS Description
.PP
The ENCLV instruction invokes the virtualization SGX leaf functions for
managing enclaves in a virtualized environment. Software specifies the
leaf function by setting the appropriate value in the register EAX as
input. The registers RBX, RCX, and RDX have leaf\-specific purpose, and
may act as input, as output, or may be unused. In non 64\-bit mode, the
instruction ignores upper 32 bits of the RAX register.

.PP
The ENCLV instruction produces an invalid\-opcode exception (#UD) if
CR0.PE = 0 or RFLAGS.VM = 1, if it is executed in system\-management mode
(SMM), or not in VMX operation. Additionally, any attempt to execute the
instruction when CPL \&gt; 0 results in #UD. The instruction produces a
general\-protection exception (#GP) if CR0.PG = 0 or if an attempt is
made to invoke an undefined leaf function.

.PP
Software in VMX root mode of operation can enable execution of the ENCLV
instruction in VMX non\-root mode by setting enable ENCLV execution
control in the VMCS. If enable ENCLV execution control in the VMCS is
clear, execution of the ENCLV instruction in VMX non\-root mode results
in #UD.

.PP
When execution of ENCLV instruction in VMX non\-root mode is enabled,
software in VMX root operation can intercept the invocation of various
ENCLV leaf functions in VMX non\-root operation by setting the
corresponding bits in the ENCLV\-exiting bitmap.

.PP
Addresses and operands are 32 bits in 32\-bit mode (IA32\_EFER.LMA == 0
|| CS.L == 0) and are 64 bits in 64\-bit mode (IA32\_EFER.LMA == 1 \&\&
CS.L == 1). CS.D value has no impact on address calculation.

.PP
Segment override prefixes and address\-size override prefixes are
ignored, as is the REX prefix in 64\-bit mode.

.SS Operation
.PP
.RS

.nf
IF TSX\_ACTIVE
            THEN GOTO TSX\_ABORT\_PROCESSING; FI;
IF CR0.PE = 0 or RFLAGS.VM = 1 or in SMM or CPUID.SGX\_LEAF.0:EAX.OSS = 0
            THEN #UD; FI;
IF in VMX non\-root operation and IA32\_EFER.LMA = 1 and CS.L = 1
            THEN #UD; FI;
IF (CPL > 0)
            THEN #UD; FI;
IF in VMX non\-root operation
    IF “enable ENCLV exiting“ VM\-execution control is 1
                THEN
                    IF EAX < 63 and ENCLV\_exiting\_bitmap[EAX] = 1 or EAX> 62 and ENCLV\_exiting\_bitmap[63] = 1
                        THEN VM exit;
                    FI;
        ELSE
                #UD; FI;
FI;
IF IA32\_FEATURE\_CONTROL.LOCK = 0 or IA32\_FEATURE\_CONTROL.SGX\_ENABLE = 0
            THEN #GP(0); FI;
IF (EAX is an invalid leaf number)
            THEN #GP(0); FI;
IF CR0.PG = 0
            THEN #GP(0); FI;
(* DS must not be an expanded down segment *)
IF not in 64\-bit mode and DS.Type is expand\-down data
            THEN #GP(0); FI;
Jump to leaf specific flow

.fi
.RE

.SS Flags Affected
.PP
See individual leaf functions.

.SS Protected Mode Exceptions
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#UD	T{
If any of the LOCK/OSIZE/REP/VEX prefix is used.
T}
	T{
If current privilege level is not 0.
T}
	T{
If CPUID.(EAX=12H,ECX=0):EAX.OSS 
T}
[
bit 5
]
 = 0.
	T{
If logical processor is in SMM.
T}
#GP(0)	If IA32
\_
FEATURE
\_
CONTROL.LOCK = 0.
	If IA32
\_
FEATURE
\_
CONTROL.SGX
\_
ENABLE = 0.
	T{
If input value in EAX encodes an unsupported leaf.
T}
	If data segment expand down.
	If CR0.PG=0.
.TE

.SS Real\-Address Mode Exceptions
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#UD	T{
ENCLV is not recognized in real mode.
T}
.TE

.SS Virtual\-8086 Mode Exceptions
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#UD	T{
ENCLV is not recognized in virtual\-8086 mode.
T}
.TE

.SS Compatibility Mode Exceptions
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SS 64\-Bit Mode Exceptions
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#UD	T{
If any of the LOCK/OSIZE/REP/VEX prefix is used.
T}
	T{
If current privilege level is not 0.
T}
	T{
If CPUID.(EAX=12H,ECX=0):EAX.OSS 
T}
[
bit 5
]
 = 0.
	T{
If logical processor is in SMM.
T}
#GP(0)	If IA32
\_
FEATURE
\_
CONTROL.LOCK = 0.
	If IA32
\_
FEATURE
\_
CONTROL.SGX
\_
ENABLE = 0.
	T{
If input value in EAX encodes an unsupported leaf.
T}
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
