.nh
.TH "X86-TPAUSE" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
TPAUSE - TIMED PAUSE
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode / Instruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64/32 bit Mode Support\fR	\fB\fCCPUID Feature Flag\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
66 0F AE /6 TPAUSE r32, \&lt;edx\&gt;, \&lt;eax\&gt;	A	V/V	WAITPKG	T{
Directs the processor to enter an implementation\-dependent optimized state until the TSC reaches the value in EDX:EAX.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING1
.PP
.RS

.PP
1\&. The Mod field of the ModR/M byte must have value 11B.

.RE

.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fCTuple\fR	\fB\fCOperand 1\fR	\fB\fCOperand 2\fR	\fB\fCOperand 3\fR	\fB\fCOperand 4\fR
A	NA	ModRM:r/m (r)	NA	NA	NA
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
TPAUSE instructs the processor to enter an implementation\-dependent
optimized state. There are two such optimized states to choose from:
light\-weight power/performance optimized state, and improved
power/performance optimized state. The selection between the two is
governed by the explicit input register bit[0] source operand.

.PP
TPAUSE is available when CPUID.7.0:ECX.WAITPKG[bit 5] is enumerated as
1. TPAUSE may be executed at any privilege level. This instruction’s
operation is the same in non\-64\-bit modes and in 64\-bit mode.

.PP
Unlike PAUSE, the TPAUSE instruction will not cause an abort when used
inside a transactional region, described in the chapter Chapter 16,
“Programming with Intel® Transactional Synchronization Extensions,” of
the Intel® 64 and IA\-32 Architectures Software Developer’s Manual,
Volume 1.

.PP
The input register contains information such as the preferred optimized
state the processor should enter as described in the following table.
Bits other than bit 0 are reserved and will result in #GP if non\-zero.

.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCBit Value\fR	\fB\fCState Name\fR	\fB\fCWakeup Time\fR	\fB\fCPower Savings\fR	\fB\fCOther Benefits\fR
bit[0] = 0	C0.2	Slower	Larger	T{
Improves performance of the other SMT thread(s) on the same core.
T}
bit[0] = 1	C0.1	Faster	Smaller	NA
bits[31:1]	NA	NA	NA	Reserved
.TE

.PP
Table 4\-19. TPAUSE Input Register Bit Definitions

.PP
The instruction execution wakes up when the time\-stamp counter reaches
or exceeds the implicit EDX:EAX 64\-bit input value.

.PP
Prior to executing the TPAUSE instruction, an operating system may
specify the maximum delay it allows the processor to suspend its
operation. It can do so by writing TSC\-quanta value to the following
32\-bit MSR (IA32\_UMWAIT\_CONTROL at MSR index E1H):

.RS
.IP \(bu 2
IA32\_UMWAIT\_CONTROL[31:2] — Determines the maximum time in
TSC\-quanta that the processor can reside in either C0.1 or C0.2. A
zero value indicates no maximum time. The maximum time value is a
32\-bit value where the upper 30 bits come from this field and the
lower two bits are zero.
.IP \(bu 2
IA32\_UMWAIT\_CONTROL[1] — Reserved.
.IP \(bu 2
IA32\_UMWAIT\_CONTROL[0] — C0.2 is not allowed by the OS. Value of
“1” means all C0.2 requests revert to C0.1.

.RE

.PP
If the processor that executed a TPAUSE instruction wakes due to the
expiration of the operating system time\-limit, the instructions sets
RFLAGS.CF; otherwise, that flag is cleared.

.PP
The following additional events cause the processor to exit the
implementation\-dependent optimized state: a store to the read\-set range
within the transactional region, an NMI or SMI, a debug exception, a
machine check exception, the BINIT# signal, the INIT# signal, and the
RESET# signal.

.PP
Other implementation\-dependent events may cause the processor to exit
the implementation\-dependent optimized state proceeding to the
instruction following TPAUSE. In addition, an external interrupt causes
the processor to exit the implementation\-dependent optimized state
regardless of whether maskable\-interrupts are inhibited (EFLAGS.IF =0).
It should be noted that if maskable\-interrupts are inhibited execution
will proceed to the instruction following TPAUSE.

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
os\_deadline ← TSC+(IA32\_MWAIT\_CONTROL[31:2]<<2)
instr\_deadline ← UINT64(EDX:EAX)
IF os\_deadline < instr\_deadline:
    deadline ← os\_deadline
    using\_os\_deadline ← 1
ELSE:
    deadline ← instr\_deadline
    using\_os\_deadline ← 0
WHILE TSC < deadline:
    implementation\_dependent\_optimized\_state(Source register, deadline, IA32\_UMWAIT\_CONTROL[0])
IF using\_os\_deadline AND TSC > deadline:
    RFLAGS.CF ← 1
ELSE:
    RFLAGS.CF ← 0
RFLAGS.AF,PF,SF,ZF,OF ← 0

.fi
.RE

.SS Intel C/C++ Compiler Intrinsic Equivalent
.PP
.RS

.nf
TPAUSE uint8\_t \_tpause(uint32\_t control, uint64\_t counter);

.fi
.RE

.SH NUMERIC EXCEPTIONS
.PP
None.

.SH EXCEPTIONS (ALL OPERATING MODES)
.PP
#GP(0) If src[31:1] != 0.

.PP
If CR4.TSD = 1 and CPL != 0.

.PP
#UD If CPUID.7.0:ECX.WAITPKG[bit 5]=0.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
