.nh
.TH "X86-AAS" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
AAS - ASCII ADJUST AL AFTER SUBTRACTION
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode\fR	\fB\fCInstruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64\-bit Mode\fR	\fB\fCCompat/Leg Mode\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
3F	AAS	ZO	Invalid	Valid	T{
ASCII adjust AL after subtraction.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
Op/En	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
ZO	NA	NA	NA	NA
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Adjusts the result of the subtraction of two unpacked BCD values to
create a unpacked BCD result. The AL register is the implied source and
destination operand for this instruction. The AAS instruction is only
useful when it follows a SUB instruction that subtracts (binary
subtraction) one unpacked BCD value from another and stores a byte
result in the AL register. The AAA instruction then adjusts the contents
of the AL register to contain the correct 1\-digit unpacked BCD result.

.PP
If the subtraction produced a decimal carry, the AH register decrements
by 1, and the CF and AF flags are set. If no decimal carry occurred, the
CF and AF flags are cleared, and the AH register is unchanged. In either
case, the AL register is left with its top four bits set to 0.

.PP
This instruction executes as described in compatibility mode and legacy
mode. It is not valid in 64\-bit mode.

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
IF 64\-bit mode
    THEN
        #UD;
    ELSE
        IF ((AL AND 0FH) > 9) or (AF = 1)
            THEN
                AX ← AX – 6;
                AH ← AH – 1;
                AF ← 1;
                CF ← 1;
                AL ← AL AND 0FH;
            ELSE
                CF ← 0;
                AF ← 0;
                AL ← AL AND 0FH;
        FI;
FI;

.fi
.RE

.SH FLAGS AFFECTED
.PP
The AF and CF flags are set to 1 if there is a decimal borrow;
otherwise, they are cleared to 0. The OF, SF, ZF, and PF flags are
undefined.

.SH PROTECTED MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH REAL\-ADDRESS MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as protected mode.

.SH VIRTUAL\-8086 MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as protected mode.

.SH COMPATIBILITY MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as protected mode.

.SH 64\-BIT MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#UD	If in 64\-bit mode.
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
