.nh
.TH "X86-BLSI" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
BLSI - EXTRACT LOWEST SET ISOLATED BIT
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode/Instruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64/32 \-bit Mode\fR	\fB\fCCPUID Feature Flag\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
T{
VEX.LZ.0F38.W0 F3 /3 BLSI r32, r/m32
T}
	VM	V/V	BMI1	T{
Extract lowest set bit from r/m32 and set that bit in r32.
T}
T{
VEX.LZ.0F38.W1 F3 /3 BLSI r64, r/m64
T}
	VM	V/N.E.	BMI1	T{
Extract lowest set bit from r/m64, and set that bit in r64.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
Op/En	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
VM	VEX.vvvv (w)	ModRM:r/m (r)	NA	NA
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Extracts the lowest set bit from the source operand and set the
corresponding bit in the destination register. All other bits in the
destination operand are zeroed. If no bits are set in the source
operand, BLSI sets all the bits in the destination to 0 and sets ZF and
CF.

.PP
This instruction is not supported in real mode and virtual\-8086 mode.
The operand size is always 32 bits if not in 64\-bit mode. In 64\-bit mode
operand size 64 requires VEX.W1. VEX.W1 is ignored in non\-64\-bit modes.
An attempt to execute this instruction with VEX.L not equal to 0 will
cause #UD.

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
temp ← (\-SRC) bitwiseAND (SRC);
SF ← temp[OperandSize \-1];
ZF ← (temp = 0);
IF SRC = 0
    CF ← 0;
ELSE
    CF ← 1;
FI
DEST ← temp;

.fi
.RE

.SH FLAGS AFFECTED
.PP
ZF and SF are updated based on the result. CF is set if the source is
not zero. OF flags are cleared. AF and PF flags are undefined.

.SH INTEL C/C++ COMPILER INTRINSIC EQUIVALENT
.PP
.RS

.nf
BLSI: unsigned \_\_int32 \_blsi\_u32(unsigned \_\_int32 src);

BLSI: unsigned \_\_int64 \_blsi\_u64(unsigned \_\_int64 src);

.fi
.RE

.SH SIMD FLOATING\-POINT EXCEPTIONS
.PP
None

.SH OTHER EXCEPTIONS
.PP
See Exceptions Type 13.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
