.nh
.TH "X86-ROUNDPD" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
ROUNDPD - ROUND PACKED DOUBLE PRECISION FLOATING-POINT VALUES
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode*/Instruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64/32 bit Mode Support\fR	\fB\fCCPUID Feature Flag\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
T{
66 0F 3A 09 /r ib ROUNDPD xmm1, xmm2/m128, imm8
T}
	RMI	V/V	SSE4\_1	T{
Round packed double precision floating\-point values in imm8.
T}
T{
VEX.128.66.0F3A.WIG 09 /r ib VROUNDPD xmm1, xmm2/m128, imm8
T}
	RMI	V/V	AVX	T{
Round packed double\-precision floating\-point values in imm8.
T}
T{
VEX.256.66.0F3A.WIG 09 /r ib VROUNDPD ymm1, ymm2/m256, imm8
T}
	RMI	V/V	AVX	T{
Round packed double\-precision floating\-point values in imm8.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
Op/En	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
RMI	ModRM:reg (w)	ModRM:r/m (r)	imm8	NA
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Round the 2 double\-precision floating\-point values in the source operand
(second operand) using the rounding mode specified in the immediate
operand (third operand) and place the results in the destination operand
(first operand). The rounding process rounds each input floating\-point
value to an integer value and returns the integer result as a
double\-precision floating\-point value.

.PP
The immediate operand specifies control fields for the rounding
operation, three bit fields are defined and shown in Figure 4\-24. Bit 3
of the immediate byte controls processor behavior for a precision
exception, bit 2 selects the source of rounding mode control. Bits 1:0
specify a non\-sticky rounding\-mode value (Table 4\-17 lists the encoded values for
rounding\-mode field).

.PP
The Precision Floating\-Point Exception is signaled according to the
immediate operand. If any source operand is an SNaN then it will be
converted to a QNaN. If DAZ is set to ‘1 then denormals will be
converted to zero before rounding.

.PP
128\-bit Legacy SSE version: The second source can be an XMM register or
128\-bit memory location. The destination is not distinct from the first
source XMM register and the upper bits (MAXVL\-1:128) of the
corresponding YMM register destination are unmodified.

.PP
VEX.128 encoded version: the source operand second source operand or a
128\-bit memory location. The destination operand is an XMM register. The
upper bits (MAXVL\-1:128) of the corresponding YMM register destination
are zeroed.

.PP
VEX.256 encoded version: The source operand is a YMM register or a
256\-bit memory location. The destination operand is a YMM register.

.PP
Note: In VEX\-encoded versions, VEX.vvvv is reserved and must be 1111b,
otherwise instructions will #UD.

.TS
allbox;
l l l 
l l l .
	8 3210		Reserved		T{
P — Precision Mask; 0: normal, 1: inexact
T}
		T{
RS — Rounding select; 1: MXCSR.RC, 0: Imm8.RC
T}
		RC — Rounding mode	.TE

.PP
Figure 4\-24. Bit Control Fields of Immediate Byte for ROUNDxx
Instruction

.PP
Table 4\-17\&. Rounding Modes and
Encoding of Rounding Control (RC) Field

.PP
Rounding RC Field Description Mode Setting

.PP
Round to 00B Rounded result is the closest to the infinitely precise
result. If two values are equally close, the result is nearest (even)
the even value (i.e., the integer value with the least\-significant bit
of zero).

.PP
Round down 01B Rounded result is closest to but no greater than the
infinitely precise result. (toward −∞)

.PP
Round up 10B Rounded result is closest to but no less than the
infinitely precise result. (toward +∞)

.PP
Round toward 11B Rounded result is closest to but no greater in absolute
value than the infinitely precise result. zero (Truncate)

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
IF (imm[2] = ‘1)
    THEN // rounding mode is determined by MXCSR.RC
        DEST[63:0] ← ConvertDPFPToInteger\_M(SRC[63:0]);
        DEST[127:64] ← ConvertDPFPToInteger\_M(SRC[127:64]);
    ELSE // rounding mode is determined by IMM8.RC
        DEST[63:0] ← ConvertDPFPToInteger\_Imm(SRC[63:0]);
        DEST[127:64] ← ConvertDPFPToInteger\_Imm(SRC[127:64]);
FI

.fi
.RE

.SS ROUNDPD (128\-bit Legacy SSE version)
.PP
.RS

.nf
DEST[63:0]←RoundToInteger(SRC[63:0]], ROUND\_CONTROL)
DEST[127:64]←RoundToInteger(SRC[127:64]], ROUND\_CONTROL)
DEST[MAXVL\-1:128] (Unmodified)

.fi
.RE

.SS VROUNDPD (VEX.128 encoded version)
.PP
.RS

.nf
DEST[63:0]←RoundToInteger(SRC[63:0]], ROUND\_CONTROL)
DEST[127:64]←RoundToInteger(SRC[127:64]], ROUND\_CONTROL)
DEST[MAXVL\-1:128] ← 0

.fi
.RE

.SS VROUNDPD (VEX.256 encoded version)
.PP
.RS

.nf
DEST[63:0]←RoundToInteger(SRC[63:0], ROUND\_CONTROL)
DEST[127:64]←RoundToInteger(SRC[127:64]], ROUND\_CONTROL)
DEST[191:128]←RoundToInteger(SRC[191:128]], ROUND\_CONTROL)
DEST[255:192]←RoundToInteger(SRC[255:192] ], ROUND\_CONTROL)

.fi
.RE

.SH INTEL C/C++ COMPILER INTRINSIC EQUIVALENT
.PP
.RS

.nf
\_\_m128 \_mm\_round\_pd(\_\_m128d s1, int iRoundMode);

\_\_m128 \_mm\_floor\_pd(\_\_m128d s1);

\_\_m128 \_mm\_ceil\_pd(\_\_m128d s1)

\_\_m256 \_mm256\_round\_pd(\_\_m256d s1, int iRoundMode);

\_\_m256 \_mm256\_floor\_pd(\_\_m256d s1);

\_\_m256 \_mm256\_ceil\_pd(\_\_m256d s1)

.fi
.RE

.SH SIMD FLOATING\-POINT EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Invalid (signaled only if SRC = SNaN)

.PP
Precision (signaled only if imm[3] = ‘0; if imm[3] = ‘1, then the
Precision Mask in the MXSCSR is ignored and precision exception is not
signaled.)

.PP
Note that Denormal is not signaled by ROUNDPD.

.SH OTHER EXCEPTIONS
.PP
See Exceptions Type 2; additionally

.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#UD	If VEX.vvvv ≠ 1111B.
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
