.nh
.TH "X86-KSHIFTRW-KSHIFTRB-KSHIFTRQ-KSHIFTRD" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
KSHIFTRW-KSHIFTRB-KSHIFTRQ-KSHIFTRD - SHIFT RIGHT MASK REGISTERS
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode/Instruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64/32 bit Mode Support\fR	\fB\fCCPUID Feature Flag\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
T{
VEX.L0.66.0F3A.W1 30 /r KSHIFTRW k1, k2, imm8
T}
	RRI	V/V	AVX512F	T{
Shift right 16 bits in k2 by immediate and write result in k1.
T}
T{
VEX.L0.66.0F3A.W0 30 /r KSHIFTRB k1, k2, imm8
T}
	RRI	V/V	AVX512DQ	T{
Shift right 8 bits in k2 by immediate and write result in k1.
T}
T{
VEX.L0.66.0F3A.W1 31 /r KSHIFTRQ k1, k2, imm8
T}
	RRI	V/V	AVX512BW	T{
Shift right 64 bits in k2 by immediate and write result in k1.
T}
T{
VEX.L0.66.0F3A.W0 31 /r KSHIFTRD k1, k2, imm8
T}
	RRI	V/V	AVX512BW	T{
Shift right 32 bits in k2 by immediate and write result in k1.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l 
l l l l .
Op/En	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3
RRI	ModRM:reg (w)	ModRM:r/m (r, ModRM:[7:6] must be 11b)	Imm8
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Shifts 8/16/32/64 bits in the second operand (source operand) right by
the count specified in immediate and place the least significant
8/16/32/64 bits of the result in the destination operand. The higher
bits of the destination are zero\-extended. The destination is set to
zero if the count value is greater than 7 (for byte shift), 15 (for word
shift), 31 (for doubleword shift) or 63 (for quadword shift).

.SH OPERATION
.SS KSHIFTRW
.PP
.RS

.nf
COUNT ← imm8[7:0]
DEST[MAX\_KL\-1:0] ← 0
IF COUNT <=15
    THEN DEST[15:0]←SRC1[15:0] >> COUNT;
FI;

.fi
.RE

.SS KSHIFTRB
.PP
.RS

.nf
COUNT ← imm8[7:0]
DEST[MAX\_KL\-1:0] ← 0
IF COUNT <=7
    THEN DEST[7:0] ← SRC1[7:0] >> COUNT;
FI;

.fi
.RE

.SS KSHIFTRQ
.PP
.RS

.nf
COUNT ← imm8[7:0]
DEST[MAX\_KL\-1:0] ← 0
IF COUNT <=63
    THEN DEST[63:0] ← SRC1[63:0] >> COUNT;
FI;

.fi
.RE

.SS KSHIFTRD
.PP
.RS

.nf
COUNT ← imm8[7:0]
DEST[MAX\_KL\-1:0] ← 0
IF COUNT <=31
    THEN DEST[31:0] ← SRC1[31:0] >> COUNT;
FI;

.fi
.RE

.SH INTEL C/C++ COMPILER INTRINSIC EQUIVALENT
.PP
.RS

.nf
Compiler auto generates KSHIFTRW when needed.

.fi
.RE

.SH FLAGS AFFECTED
.PP
None

.SH SIMD FLOATING\-POINT EXCEPTIONS
.PP
None

.SH OTHER EXCEPTIONS
.PP
See Exceptions Type K20.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
