.nh
.TH "X86-VREDUCEPD" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
VREDUCEPD - PERFORM REDUCTION TRANSFORMATION ON PACKED FLOAT64 VALUES
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode/Instruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64/32 bit Mode Support\fR	\fB\fCCPUID Feature Flag\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
T{
EVEX.128.66.0F3A.W1 56 /r ib VREDUCEPD xmm1 {k1}{z}, xmm2/m128/m64bcst, imm8
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512DQ	T{
Perform reduction transformation on packed double\-precision floating point values in xmm2/m128/m32bcst by subtracting a number of fraction bits specified by the imm8 field. Stores the result in xmm1 register under writemask k1.
T}
T{
EVEX.256.66.0F3A.W1 56 /r ib VREDUCEPD ymm1 {k1}{z}, ymm2/m256/m64bcst, imm8
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512DQ	T{
Perform reduction transformation on packed double\-precision floating point values in ymm2/m256/m32bcst by subtracting a number of fraction bits specified by the imm8 field. Stores the result in ymm1 register under writemask k1.
T}
T{
EVEX.512.66.0F3A.W1 56 /r ib VREDUCEPD zmm1 {k1}{z}, zmm2/m512/m64bcst{sae}, imm8
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512DQ	T{
Perform reduction transformation on double\-precision floating point values in zmm2/m512/m32bcst by subtracting a number of fraction bits specified by the imm8 field. Stores the result in zmm1 register under writemask k1.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
Op/En	Tuple Type	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
A	Full	ModRM:reg (w)	ModRM:r/m (r)	Imm8	NA
.TE

.SS Description
.PP
Perform reduction transformation of the packed binary encoded
double\-precision FP values in the source operand (the second operand)
and store the reduced results in binary FP format to the destination
operand (the first operand) under the writemask k1.

.PP
The reduction transformation subtracts the integer part and the leading
M fractional bits from the binary FP source value, where M is a unsigned
integer specified by imm8[7:4], see Figure 5\-28. Specifically, the
reduction transformation can be expressed as:

.PP
dest = src – (ROUND(2\-M;

.PP
where “Round()” treats “src”, “2M”, and their product as binary FP
numbers with normalized significand and biased exponents.

.PP
The magnitude of the reduced result can be expressed by considering src=
2p*man2,

.PP
where ‘man2’ is the normalized significand and ‘p’ is the unbiased
exponent

.PP
Then if RC = RNE: 0\&lt;=|Reduced Result|\&lt;=2p\-M\-1

.PP
Then if RC ≠ RNE: 0\&lt;=|Reduced Result|\&lt;2p\-M

.PP
This instruction might end up with a precision exception set. However,
in case of SPE set (i.e. Suppress Precision Exception, which is
imm8[3]=1), no precision exception is reported.

.PP
EVEX.vvvv is reserved and must be 1111b otherwise instructions will
#UD.

.TP
of fixed points to subtractImm8[1:0] = 01b : Round downImm8[2] = 0b
Use Imm8[1:0]Imm8[3] = 1b : SuppressImm8[1:0] = 10b : Round
upImm8[2] = 1b : Use MXCSRImm8[1:0] = 11b : Truncate

.TP
of fixed points to subtractImm8[1:0] = 01b : Round downImm8[2] = 0b
Use Imm8[1:0]Imm8[3] = 1b : SuppressImm8[1:0] = 10b : Round
upImm8[2] = 1b : Use MXCSRImm8[1:0] = 11b : Truncate

.PP
1b : Truncate

.PP
Figure 5\-28. Imm8 Controls for VREDUCEPD/SD/PS/SS

.PP
Handling of special case of input values are listed in Table 5\-24.

.TS
allbox;
l l l 
l l l .
|Src1| \&lt; 2\-M\-1	RNE	Src1
\-M	RPI, Src1 \&gt; 0	Round (Src1\-2\-M) 
*
	RPI, Src1 ≤ 0	Src1
	RNI, Src1 ≥ 0	Src1
	RNI, Src1 \&lt; 0	Round (Src1+2\-M) 
*
T{
Src1 = ±0, or Dest = ±0 (Src1!=INF)
T}
	NOT RNI	+0.0
	RNI	\-0.0
Src1 = ±INF	any	+0.0
Src1= ±NAN	n/a	QNaN(Src1)
.TE

.PP
Table 5\-24. VREDUCEPD/SD/PS/SS Special Cases

.PP
* Round control = (imm8.MS1)? MXCSR.RC: imm8.RC

.SS Operation
.PP
.RS

.nf
ReduceArgumentDP(SRC[63:0], imm8[7:0])
{
    // Check for NaN
    IF (SRC [63:0] = NAN) THEN
        RETURN (Convert SRC[63:0] to QNaN); FI;
    M ← imm8[7:4]; // Number of fraction bits of the normalized significand to be subtracted
    RC←imm8[1:0];// Round Control for ROUND() operation
    RC source←imm[2];
    SPE←0;// Suppress Precision Exception
    TMP[63:0] ← 2M as standard binary FP values
    TMP[63:0]←SRC[63:0] – TMP[63:0]; // subtraction under the same RC,SPE controls
    RETURN TMP[63:0]; // binary encoded FP with biased exponent and normalized significand
}

.fi
.RE

.SS VREDUCEPD
.PP
.RS

.nf
(KL, VL) = (2, 128), (4, 256), (8, 512)
FOR j←0 TO KL\-1
    i←j * 64
    IF k1[j] OR *no writemask* THEN
            IF (EVEX.b == 1) AND (SRC *is memory*)
                THEN DEST[i+63:i]←ReduceArgumentDP(SRC[63:0], imm8[7:0]);
                ELSE DEST[i+63:i]←ReduceArgumentDP(SRC[i+63:i], imm8[7:0]);
            FI;
    ELSE
        IF *merging\-masking* ; merging\-masking
            THEN *DEST[i+63:i] remains unchanged*
            ELSE
                    ; zeroing\-masking
                DEST[i+63:i] = 0
        FI;
    FI;
ENDFOR;
DEST[MAXVL\-1:VL] ← 0

.fi
.RE

.SS Intel C/C++ Compiler Intrinsic Equivalent
.PP
.RS

.nf
VREDUCEPD \_\_m512d \_mm512\_mask\_reduce\_pd( \_\_m512d a, int imm, int sae)

VREDUCEPD \_\_m512d \_mm512\_mask\_reduce\_pd(\_\_m512d s, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m512d a, int imm, int sae)

VREDUCEPD \_\_m512d \_mm512\_maskz\_reduce\_pd(\_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m512d a, int imm, int sae)

VREDUCEPD \_\_m256d \_mm256\_mask\_reduce\_pd( \_\_m256d a, int imm)

VREDUCEPD \_\_m256d \_mm256\_mask\_reduce\_pd(\_\_m256d s, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m256d a, int imm)

VREDUCEPD \_\_m256d \_mm256\_maskz\_reduce\_pd(\_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m256d a, int imm)

VREDUCEPD \_\_m128d \_mm\_mask\_reduce\_pd( \_\_m128d a, int imm)

VREDUCEPD \_\_m128d \_mm\_mask\_reduce\_pd(\_\_m128d s, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m128d a, int imm)

VREDUCEPD \_\_m128d \_mm\_maskz\_reduce\_pd(\_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m128d a, int imm)

.fi
.RE

.SS SIMD Floating\-Point Exceptions
.PP
Invalid, Precision

.PP
If SPE is enabled, precision exception is not reported (regardless of
MXCSR exception mask).

.SS Other Exceptions
.PP
See Exceptions Type E2, additionally

.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#UD	If EVEX.vvvv != 1111B.
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
