.nh
.TH "X86-XLAT-XLATB" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
XLAT-XLATB - TABLE LOOK-UP TRANSLATION
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode\fR	\fB\fCInstruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64\-Bit Mode\fR	\fB\fCCompat/Leg Mode\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
D7	XLAT m8	ZO	Valid	Valid	Set AL to memory byte DS:
[
(E)BX + unsigned AL
]
\&.
D7	XLATB	ZO	Valid	Valid	Set AL to memory byte DS:
[
(E)BX + unsigned AL
]
\&.
REX.W + D7	XLATB	ZO	Valid	N.E.	Set AL to memory byte 
[
RBX + unsigned AL
]
\&.
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
Op/En	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
ZO	NA	NA	NA	NA
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Locates a byte entry in a table in memory, using the contents of the AL
register as a table index, then copies the contents of the table entry
back into the AL register. The index in the AL register is treated as an
unsigned integer. The XLAT and XLATB instructions get the base address
of the table in memory from either the DS:EBX or the DS:BX registers
(depending on the address\-size attribute of the instruction, 32 or 16,
respectively). (The DS segment may be overridden with a segment override
prefix.)

.PP
At the assembly\-code level, two forms of this instruction are allowed:
the “explicit\-operand” form and the “no\-operand” form. The
explicit\-operand form (specified with the XLAT mnemonic) allows the base
address of the table to be specified explicitly with a symbol. This
explicit\-operands form is provided to allow documentation; however, note
that the documentation provided by this form can be misleading. That is,
the symbol does not have to specify the correct base address. The base
address is always specified by the DS:(E)BX registers, which must be
loaded correctly before the XLAT instruction is executed.

.PP
The no\-operands form (XLATB) provides a “short form” of the XLAT
instructions. Here also the processor assumes that the DS:(E)BX
registers contain the base address of the table.

.PP
In 64\-bit mode, operation is similar to that in legacy or compatibility
mode. AL is used to specify the table index (the operand size is fixed
at 8 bits). RBX, however, is used to specify the table’s base address.
See the summary chart at the beginning of this section for encoding data
and limits.

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
IF AddressSize = 16
    THEN
        AL ← (DS:BX + ZeroExtend(AL));
    ELSE IF (AddressSize = 32)
        AL ← (DS:EBX + ZeroExtend(AL)); FI;
    ELSE (AddressSize = 64)
        AL ← (RBX + ZeroExtend(AL));
FI;

.fi
.RE

.SH FLAGS AFFECTED
.PP
None.

.SH PROTECTED MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
	T{
If the DS, ES, FS, or GS register contains a NULL segment selector.
T}
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH REAL\-ADDRESS MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
#SS	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH VIRTUAL\-8086 MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH COMPATIBILITY MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH 64\-BIT MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory address referencing the SS segment is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#GP(0)	T{
If the memory address is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
