.nh
.TH "X86-FSTENV-FNSTENV" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
FSTENV-FNSTENV - STORE X87 FPU ENVIRONMENT
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode\fR	\fB\fCInstruction\fR	\fB\fC64\-Bit Mode\fR	\fB\fCCompat/Leg Mode\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
9B D9 /6	FSTENV m14/28byte	Valid	Valid	T{
Store FPU environment to m28byte after checking for pending unmasked floating\-point exceptions. Then mask all floating\-point exceptions.
T}
D9 /6	FNSTENV* m14/28byte	Valid	Valid	T{
Store FPU environment to m28byte without checking for pending unmasked floating\-point exceptions. Then mask all floating\-point exceptions.
T}
.TE

.PP
.RS

.PP
* SeeIA\-32ArchitectureCompatibilitysectionbelow.

.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Saves the current FPU operating environment at the memory location
specified with the destination operand, and then masks all
floating\-point exceptions. The FPU operating environment consists of the
FPU control word, status word, tag word, instruction pointer, data
pointer, and last opcode. Figures 8\-9 through 8\-12 in the Intel® 64 and
IA\-32 Architectures Software Developer’s Manual, Volume 1, show the
layout in memory of the stored environment, depending on the operating
mode of the processor (protected or real) and the current operand\-size
attribute (16\-bit or 32\-bit). In virtual\-8086 mode, the real mode
layouts are used.

.PP
The FSTENV instruction checks for and handles any pending unmasked
floating\-point exceptions before storing the FPU environment; the
FNSTENV instruction does not. The saved image reflects the state of the
FPU after all floating\-point instructions preceding the FSTENV/FNSTENV
instruction in the instruction stream have been executed.

.PP
These instructions are often used by exception handlers because they
provide access to the FPU instruction and data pointers. The environment
is typically saved in the stack. Masking all exceptions after saving the
environment prevents floating\-point exceptions from interrupting the
exception handler.

.PP
The assembler issues two instructions for the FSTENV instruction (an
FWAIT instruction followed by an FNSTENV instruction), and the processor
executes each of these instructions separately. If an exception is
generated for either of these instructions, the save EIP points to the
instruction that caused the exception.

.PP
This instruction’s operation is the same in non\-64\-bit modes and 64\-bit
mode.

.SH IA\-32 ARCHITECTURE COMPATIBILITY
.PP
When operating a Pentium or Intel486 processor in MS\-DOS compatibility
mode, it is possible (under unusual circumstances) for an FNSTENV
instruction to be interrupted prior to being executed to handle a
pending FPU exception. See the section titled “No\-Wait FPU Instructions
Can Get FPU Interrupt in Window” in Appendix D of the Intel® 64 and
IA\-32 Architectures Software Developer’s Manual, Volume 1, for a
description of these circumstances. An FNSTENV instruction cannot be
interrupted in this way on later Intel processors, except for the Intel
QuarkTM X1000 processor.

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
DEST[FPUControlWord] ← FPUControlWord;
DEST[FPUStatusWord] ← FPUStatusWord;
DEST[FPUTagWord] ← FPUTagWord;
DEST[FPUDataPointer] ← FPUDataPointer;
DEST[FPUInstructionPointer] ← FPUInstructionPointer;
DEST[FPULastInstructionOpcode] ← FPULastInstructionOpcode;

.fi
.RE

.SH FPU FLAGS AFFECTED
.PP
The C0, C1, C2, and C3 are undefined.

.SH FLOATING\-POINT EXCEPTIONS
.PP
None

.SH PROTECTED MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If the destination is located in a non\-writable segment.
T}
	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
	T{
If the DS, ES, FS, or GS register is used to access memory and it contains a NULL segment selector.
T}
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#NM	CR0.EM
[
bit 2
]
 or CR0.TS
[
bit 3
]
 = 1.
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made while the current privilege level is 3.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH REAL\-ADDRESS MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
#SS	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#NM	CR0.EM
[
bit 2
]
 or CR0.TS
[
bit 3
]
 = 1.
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH VIRTUAL\-8086 MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#NM	CR0.EM
[
bit 2
]
 or CR0.TS
[
bit 3
]
 = 1.
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH COMPATIBILITY MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH 64\-BIT MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory address referencing the SS segment is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#GP(0)	T{
If the memory address is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#NM	CR0.EM
[
bit 2
]
 or CR0.TS
[
bit 3
]
 = 1.
#MF	T{
If there is a pending x87 FPU exception.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made while the current privilege level is 3.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
