.nh
.TH "X86-VPCMPD-VPCMPUD" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
VPCMPD-VPCMPUD - COMPARE PACKED INTEGER VALUES INTO MASK
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode/Instruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64/32 bit Mode Support\fR	\fB\fCCPUID Feature Flag\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
T{
EVEX.128.66.0F3A.W0 1F /r ib VPCMPD k1 {k2}, xmm2, xmm3/m128/m32bcst, imm8
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512F	T{
Compare packed signed doubleword integer values in xmm3/m128/m32bcst and xmm2 using bits 2:0 of imm8 as a comparison predicate with writemask k2 and leave the result in mask register k1.
T}
T{
EVEX.256.66.0F3A.W0 1F /r ib VPCMPD k1 {k2}, ymm2, ymm3/m256/m32bcst, imm8
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512F	T{
Compare packed signed doubleword integer values in ymm3/m256/m32bcst and ymm2 using bits 2:0 of imm8 as a comparison predicate with writemask k2 and leave the result in mask register k1.
T}
T{
EVEX.512.66.0F3A.W0 1F /r ib VPCMPD k1 {k2}, zmm2, zmm3/m512/m32bcst, imm8
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512F	T{
Compare packed signed doubleword integer values in zmm2 and zmm3/m512/m32bcst using bits 2:0 of imm8 as a comparison predicate. The comparison results are written to the destination k1 under writemask k2.
T}
T{
EVEX.128.66.0F3A.W0 1E /r ib VPCMPUD k1 {k2}, xmm2, xmm3/m128/m32bcst, imm8
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512F	T{
Compare packed unsigned doubleword integer values in xmm3/m128/m32bcst and xmm2 using bits 2:0 of imm8 as a comparison predicate with writemask k2 and leave the result in mask register k1.
T}
T{
EVEX.256.66.0F3A.W0 1E /r ib VPCMPUD k1 {k2}, ymm2, ymm3/m256/m32bcst, imm8
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512F	T{
Compare packed unsigned doubleword integer values in ymm3/m256/m32bcst and ymm2 using bits 2:0 of imm8 as a comparison predicate with writemask k2 and leave the result in mask register k1.
T}
T{
EVEX.512.66.0F3A.W0 1E /r ib VPCMPUD k1 {k2}, zmm2, zmm3/m512/m32bcst, imm8
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512F	T{
Compare packed unsigned doubleword integer values in zmm2 and zmm3/m512/m32bcst using bits 2:0 of imm8 as a comparison predicate. The comparison results are written to the destination k1 under writemask k2.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
Op/En	Tuple Type	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
A	Full	ModRM:reg (w)	EVEX.vvvv (r)	ModRM:r/m (r)	Imm8
.TE

.SS Description
.PP
Performs a SIMD compare of the packed integer values in the second
source operand and the first source operand and returns the results of
the comparison to the mask destination operand. The comparison predicate
operand (immediate byte) specifies the type of comparison performed on
each pair of packed values in the two source operands. The result of
each comparison is a single mask bit result of 1 (comparison true) or 0
(comparison false).

.PP
VPCMPD/VPCMPUD performs a comparison between pairs of signed/unsigned
doubleword integer values.

.PP
The first source operand (second operand) is a ZMM/YMM/XMM register. The
second source operand can be a ZMM/YMM/XMM register or a 512/256/128\-bit
memory location or a 512\-bit vector broadcasted from a 32\-bit memory
location. The destination operand (first operand) is a mask register k1.
Up to 16/8/4 comparisons are performed with results written to the
destination operand under the writemask k2.

.PP
The comparison predicate operand is an 8\-bit immediate: bits 2:0 define
the type of comparison to be performed. Bits 3 through 7 of the
immediate are reserved. Compiler can implement the pseudo\-op mnemonic
listed in Table 5\-17.

.SS Operation
.PP
.RS

.nf
CASE (COMPARISON PREDICATE) OF
    0: OP←EQ;
    1: OP←LT;
    2: OP←LE;
    3: OP←FALSE;
    4: OP←NEQ;
    5: OP←NLT;
    6: OP←NLE;
    7: OP←TRUE;
ESAC;

.fi
.RE

.SS VPCMPD (EVEX encoded versions)
.PP
.RS

.nf
(KL, VL) = (4, 128), (8, 256), (16, 512)
FOR j←0 TO KL\-1
    i←j * 32
    IF k2[j] OR *no writemask*
        THEN
            IF (EVEX.b = 1) AND (SRC2 *is memory*)
                THEN CMP←SRC1[i+31:i] OP SRC2[31:0];
                ELSE CMP←SRC1[i+31:i] OP SRC2[i+31:i];
            FI;
            IF CMP = TRUE
                THEN DEST[j]←1;
                ELSE DEST[j]←0; FI;
        ELSE DEST[j]←0
                    ; zeroing\-masking onlyFI;
    FI;
ENDFOR
DEST[MAX\_KL\-1:KL] ← 0

.fi
.RE

.SS VPCMPUD (EVEX encoded versions)
.PP
.RS

.nf
(KL, VL) = (4, 128), (8, 256), (16, 512)
FOR j←0 TO KL\-1
    i←j * 32
    IF k2[j] OR *no writemask*
        THEN
            IF (EVEX.b = 1) AND (SRC2 *is memory*)
                THEN CMP←SRC1[i+31:i] OP SRC2[31:0];
                ELSE CMP←SRC1[i+31:i] OP SRC2[i+31:i];
            FI;
            IF CMP = TRUE
                THEN DEST[j]←1;
                ELSE DEST[j]←0; FI;
        ELSE DEST[j]←0
                    ; zeroing\-masking onlyFI;
    FI;
ENDFOR
DEST[MAX\_KL\-1:KL] ← 0

.fi
.RE

.SS Intel C/C++ Compiler Intrinsic Equivalent
.PP
.RS

.nf
VPCMPD \_\_mmask16 \_mm512\_cmp\_epi32\_mask( \_\_m512i a, \_\_m512i b, int imm);

VPCMPD \_\_mmask16 \_mm512\_mask\_cmp\_epi32\_mask(\_\_mmask16 k, \_\_m512i a, \_\_m512i b, int imm);

VPCMPD \_\_mmask16 \_mm512\_cmp[eq|ge|gt|le|lt|neq]\_epi32\_mask( \_\_m512i a, \_\_m512i b);

VPCMPD \_\_mmask16 \_mm512\_mask\_cmp[eq|ge|gt|le|lt|neq]\_epi32\_mask(\_\_mmask16 k, \_\_m512i a, \_\_m512i b);

VPCMPUD \_\_mmask16 \_mm512\_cmp\_epu32\_mask( \_\_m512i a, \_\_m512i b, int imm);

VPCMPUD \_\_mmask16 \_mm512\_mask\_cmp\_epu32\_mask(\_\_mmask16 k, \_\_m512i a, \_\_m512i b, int imm);

VPCMPUD \_\_mmask16 \_mm512\_cmp[eq|ge|gt|le|lt|neq]\_epu32\_mask( \_\_m512i a, \_\_m512i b);

VPCMPUD \_\_mmask16 \_mm512\_mask\_cmp[eq|ge|gt|le|lt|neq]\_epu32\_mask(\_\_mmask16 k, \_\_m512i a, \_\_m512i b);

VPCMPD \_\_mmask8 \_mm256\_cmp\_epi32\_mask( \_\_m256i a, \_\_m256i b, int imm);

VPCMPD \_\_mmask8 \_mm256\_mask\_cmp\_epi32\_mask(\_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m256i a, \_\_m256i b, int imm);

VPCMPD \_\_mmask8 \_mm256\_cmp[eq|ge|gt|le|lt|neq]\_epi32\_mask( \_\_m256i a, \_\_m256i b);

VPCMPD \_\_mmask8 \_mm256\_mask\_cmp[eq|ge|gt|le|lt|neq]\_epi32\_mask(\_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m256i a, \_\_m256i b);

VPCMPUD \_\_mmask8 \_mm256\_cmp\_epu32\_mask( \_\_m256i a, \_\_m256i b, int imm);

VPCMPUD \_\_mmask8 \_mm256\_mask\_cmp\_epu32\_mask(\_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m256i a, \_\_m256i b, int imm);

VPCMPUD \_\_mmask8 \_mm256\_cmp[eq|ge|gt|le|lt|neq]\_epu32\_mask( \_\_m256i a, \_\_m256i b);

VPCMPUD \_\_mmask8 \_mm256\_mask\_cmp[eq|ge|gt|le|lt|neq]\_epu32\_mask(\_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m256i a, \_\_m256i b);

VPCMPD \_\_mmask8 \_mm\_cmp\_epi32\_mask( \_\_m128i a, \_\_m128i b, int imm);

VPCMPD \_\_mmask8 \_mm\_mask\_cmp\_epi32\_mask(\_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m128i a, \_\_m128i b, int imm);

VPCMPD \_\_mmask8 \_mm\_cmp[eq|ge|gt|le|lt|neq]\_epi32\_mask( \_\_m128i a, \_\_m128i b);

VPCMPD \_\_mmask8 \_mm\_mask\_cmp[eq|ge|gt|le|lt|neq]\_epi32\_mask(\_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m128i a, \_\_m128i b);

VPCMPUD \_\_mmask8 \_mm\_cmp\_epu32\_mask( \_\_m128i a, \_\_m128i b, int imm);

VPCMPUD \_\_mmask8 \_mm\_mask\_cmp\_epu32\_mask(\_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m128i a, \_\_m128i b, int imm);

VPCMPUD \_\_mmask8 \_mm\_cmp[eq|ge|gt|le|lt|neq]\_epu32\_mask( \_\_m128i a, \_\_m128i b);

VPCMPUD \_\_mmask8 \_mm\_mask\_cmp[eq|ge|gt|le|lt|neq]\_epu32\_mask(\_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m128i a, \_\_m128i b);

.fi
.RE

.SS SIMD Floating\-Point Exceptions
.PP
None

.SS Other Exceptions
.PP
EVEX\-encoded instruction, see Exceptions Type E4.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
