.nh
.TH "X86-SQRTPS" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
SQRTPS - SQUARE ROOT OF SINGLE-PRECISION FLOATING-POINT VALUES
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode/Instruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64/32 bit Mode Support\fR	\fB\fCCPUID Feature Flag\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
T{
NP 0F 51 /r SQRTPS xmm1, xmm2/m128
T}
	A	V/V	SSE	T{
Computes Square Roots of the packed single\-precision floating\-point values in xmm2/m128 and stores the result in xmm1.
T}
T{
VEX.128.0F.WIG 51 /r VSQRTPS xmm1, xmm2/m128
T}
	A	V/V	AVX	T{
Computes Square Roots of the packed single\-precision floating\-point values in xmm2/m128 and stores the result in xmm1.
T}
T{
VEX.256.0F.WIG 51/r VSQRTPS ymm1, ymm2/m256
T}
	A	V/V	AVX	T{
Computes Square Roots of the packed single\-precision floating\-point values in ymm2/m256 and stores the result in ymm1.
T}
T{
EVEX.128.0F.W0 51 /r VSQRTPS xmm1 {k1}{z}, xmm2/m128/m32bcst
T}
	B	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512F	T{
Computes Square Roots of the packed single\-precision floating\-point values in xmm2/m128/m32bcst and stores the result in xmm1 subject to writemask k1.
T}
T{
EVEX.256.0F.W0 51 /r VSQRTPS ymm1 {k1}{z}, ymm2/m256/m32bcst
T}
	B	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512F	T{
Computes Square Roots of the packed single\-precision floating\-point values in ymm2/m256/m32bcst and stores the result in ymm1 subject to writemask k1.
T}
T{
EVEX.512.0F.W0 51/r VSQRTPS zmm1 {k1}{z}, zmm2/m512/m32bcst{er}
T}
	B	V/V	AVX512F	T{
Computes Square Roots of the packed single\-precision floating\-point values in zmm2/m512/m32bcst and stores the result in zmm1 subject to writemask k1.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
Op/En	Tuple Type	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
A	NA	ModRM:reg (w)	ModRM:r/m (r)	NA	NA
B	Full	ModRM:reg (w)	ModRM:r/m (r)	NA	NA
.TE

.SS Description
.PP
Performs a SIMD computation of the square roots of the four, eight or
sixteen packed single\-precision floating\-point values in the source
operand (second operand) stores the packed single\-precision
floating\-point results in the destination operand.

.PP
EVEX.512 encoded versions: The source operand is a ZMM/YMM/XMM register,
a 512/256/128\-bit memory location or a 512/256/128\-bit vector
broadcasted from a 32\-bit memory location. The destination operand is a
ZMM/YMM/XMM register updated according to the writemask.

.PP
VEX.256 encoded version: The source operand is a YMM register or a
256\-bit memory location. The destination operand is a YMM register. The
upper bits (MAXVL\-1:256) of the corresponding ZMM register destination
are zeroed.

.PP
VEX.128 encoded version: the source operand second source operand or a
128\-bit memory location. The destination operand is an XMM register. The
upper bits (MAXVL\-1:128) of the corresponding ZMM register destination
are zeroed.

.PP
128\-bit Legacy SSE version: The second source can be an XMM register or
128\-bit memory location. The destination is not distinct from the first
source XMM register and the upper bits (MAXVL\-1:128) of the
corresponding ZMM register destination are unmodified.

.PP
Note: VEX.vvvv and EVEX.vvvv are reserved and must be 1111b otherwise
instructions will #UD.

.SS Operation
.SS VSQRTPS (EVEX encoded versions)
.PP
.RS

.nf
(KL, VL) = (4, 128), (8, 256), (16, 512)
IF (VL = 512) AND (EVEX.b = 1) AND (SRC *is register*)
    THEN
        SET\_RM(EVEX.RC);
    ELSE
        SET\_RM(MXCSR.RM);
FI;
FOR j←0 TO KL\-1
    i←j * 32
    IF k1[j] OR *no writemask* THEN
            IF (EVEX.b = 1) AND (SRC *is memory*)
                THEN DEST[i+31:i]←SQRT(SRC[31:0])
                ELSE DEST[i+31:i]←SQRT(SRC[i+31:i])
            FI;
        ELSE
            IF *merging\-masking* ; merging\-masking
                THEN *DEST[i+31:i] remains unchanged*
                ELSE
                        ; zeroing\-masking
                    DEST[i+31:i] ← 0
            FI
    FI;
ENDFOR
DEST[MAXVL\-1:VL] ← 0

.fi
.RE

.SS VSQRTPS (VEX.256 encoded version)
.PP
.RS

.nf
DEST[31:0] ←SQRT(SRC[31:0])
DEST[63:32] ←SQRT(SRC[63:32])
DEST[95:64] ←SQRT(SRC[95:64])
DEST[127:96] ←SQRT(SRC[127:96])
DEST[159:128] ←SQRT(SRC[159:128])
DEST[191:160] ←SQRT(SRC[191:160])
DEST[223:192] ←SQRT(SRC[223:192])
DEST[255:224] ←SQRT(SRC[255:224])

.fi
.RE

.SS VSQRTPS (VEX.128 encoded version)
.PP
.RS

.nf
DEST[31:0] ←SQRT(SRC[31:0])
DEST[63:32] ←SQRT(SRC[63:32])
DEST[95:64] ←SQRT(SRC[95:64])
DEST[127:96] ←SQRT(SRC[127:96])
DEST[MAXVL\-1:128] ←0

.fi
.RE

.SS SQRTPS (128\-bit Legacy SSE version)
.PP
.RS

.nf
DEST[31:0] ←SQRT(SRC[31:0])
DEST[63:32] ←SQRT(SRC[63:32])
DEST[95:64] ←SQRT(SRC[95:64])
DEST[127:96] ←SQRT(SRC[127:96])
DEST[MAXVL\-1:128] (Unmodified)

.fi
.RE

.SS Intel C/C++ Compiler Intrinsic Equivalent
.PP
.RS

.nf
VSQRTPS \_\_m512 \_mm512\_sqrt\_round\_ps(\_\_m512 a, int r);

VSQRTPS \_\_m512 \_mm512\_mask\_sqrt\_round\_ps(\_\_m512 s, \_\_mmask16 k, \_\_m512 a, int r);

VSQRTPS \_\_m512 \_mm512\_maskz\_sqrt\_round\_ps( \_\_mmask16 k, \_\_m512 a, int r);

VSQRTPS \_\_m256 \_mm256\_sqrt\_ps (\_\_m256 a);

VSQRTPS \_\_m256 \_mm256\_mask\_sqrt\_ps(\_\_m256 s, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m256 a, int r);

VSQRTPS \_\_m256 \_mm256\_maskz\_sqrt\_ps( \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m256 a, int r);

SQRTPS \_\_m128 \_mm\_sqrt\_ps (\_\_m128 a);

VSQRTPS \_\_m128 \_mm\_mask\_sqrt\_ps(\_\_m128 s, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m128 a, int r);

VSQRTPS \_\_m128 \_mm\_maskz\_sqrt\_ps( \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m128 a, int r);

.fi
.RE

.SS SIMD Floating\-Point Exceptions
.PP
Invalid, Precision, Denormal

.SS Other Exceptions
.PP
Non\-EVEX\-encoded instruction, see Exceptions Type 2; additionally

.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#UD	If VEX.vvvv != 1111B.
.TE

.PP
EVEX\-encoded instruction, see Exceptions Type E2.

.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#UD	If EVEX.vvvv != 1111B.
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
