.nh
.TH "X86-DIVPD" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
DIVPD - DIVIDE PACKED DOUBLE-PRECISION FLOATING-POINT VALUES
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode/Instruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64/32 bit Mode Support\fR	\fB\fCCPUID Feature Flag\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
T{
66 0F 5E /r DIVPD xmm1, xmm2/m128
T}
	A	V/V	SSE2	T{
Divide packed double\-precision floating\-point values in xmm1 by packed double\-precision floating\-point values in xmm2/mem.
T}
T{
VEX.128.66.0F.WIG 5E /r VDIVPD xmm1, xmm2, xmm3/m128
T}
	B	V/V	AVX	T{
Divide packed double\-precision floating\-point values in xmm2 by packed double\-precision floating\-point values in xmm3/mem.
T}
T{
VEX.256.66.0F.WIG 5E /r VDIVPD ymm1, ymm2, ymm3/m256
T}
	B	V/V	AVX	T{
Divide packed double\-precision floating\-point values in ymm2 by packed double\-precision floating\-point values in ymm3/mem.
T}
T{
EVEX.128.66.0F.W1 5E /r VDIVPD xmm1 {k1}{z}, xmm2, xmm3/m128/m64bcst
T}
	C	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512F	T{
Divide packed double\-precision floating\-point values in xmm2 by packed double\-precision floating\-point values in xmm3/m128/m64bcst and write results to xmm1 subject to writemask k1.
T}
T{
EVEX.256.66.0F.W1 5E /r VDIVPD ymm1 {k1}{z}, ymm2, ymm3/m256/m64bcst
T}
	C	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512F	T{
Divide packed double\-precision floating\-point values in ymm2 by packed double\-precision floating\-point values in ymm3/m256/m64bcst and write results to ymm1 subject to writemask k1.
T}
T{
EVEX.512.66.0F.W1 5E /r VDIVPD zmm1 {k1}{z}, zmm2, zmm3/m512/m64bcst{er}
T}
	C	V/V	AVX512F	T{
Divide packed double\-precision floating\-point values in zmm2 by packed double\-precision FP values in zmm3/m512/m64bcst and write results to zmm1 subject to writemask k1.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
Op/En	Tuple Type	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
A	NA	ModRM:reg (r, w)	ModRM:r/m (r)	NA	NA
B	NA	ModRM:reg (w)	VEX.vvvv	ModRM:r/m (r)	NA
C	Full	ModRM:reg (w)	EVEX.vvvv	ModRM:r/m (r)	NA
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Performs a SIMD divide of the double\-precision floating\-point values in
the first source operand by the floating\-point values in the second
source operand (the third operand). Results are written to the
destination operand (the first operand).

.PP
EVEX encoded versions: The first source operand (the second operand) is
a ZMM/YMM/XMM register. The second source operand can be a ZMM/YMM/XMM
register, a 512/256/128\-bit memory location or a 512/256/128\-bit vector
broadcasted from a 64\-bit memory location. The destination operand is a
ZMM/YMM/XMM register conditionally updated with writemask k1.

.PP
VEX.256 encoded version: The first source operand (the second operand)
is a YMM register. The second source operand can be a YMM register or a
256\-bit memory location. The destination operand is a YMM register. The
upper bits (MAXVL\-1:256) of the corresponding destination are zeroed.

.PP
VEX.128 encoded version: The first source operand (the second operand)
is a XMM register. The second source operand can be a XMM register or a
128\-bit memory location. The destination operand is a XMM register. The
upper bits (MAXVL\-1:128) of the corresponding destination are zeroed.

.PP
128\-bit Legacy SSE version: The second source operand (the second
operand) can be an XMM register or an 128\-bit memory location. The
destination is the same as the first source operand. The upper bits
(MAXVL\-1:128) of the corresponding destination are unmodified.

.SH OPERATION
.SS VDIVPD (EVEX encoded versions)
.PP
.RS

.nf
(KL, VL) = (2, 128), (4, 256), (8, 512)
IF (VL = 512) AND (EVEX.b = 1) AND SRC2 *is a register*
    THEN
        SET\_RM(EVEX.RC); ; refer to Table 15\-4 in the Intel® 64 and IA\-32 Architectures Software Developer’s Manual, Volume 1
    ELSE
        SET\_RM(MXCSR.RM);
FI;
FOR j←0 TO KL\-1
    i←j * 64
    IF k1[j] OR *no writemask*
        THEN
            IF (EVEX.b = 1) AND (SRC2 *is memory*)
                THEN
                    DEST[i+63:i]←SRC1[i+63:i] / SRC2[63:0]
                ELSE
                    DEST[i+63:i]←SRC1[i+63:i] / SRC2[i+63:i]
            FI;
        ELSE
            IF *merging\-masking* ; merging\-masking
                THEN *DEST[i+63:i] remains unchanged*
                ELSE ; zeroing\-masking
                    DEST[i+63:i] ← 0
            FI
    FI;
ENDFOR
DEST[MAXVL\-1:VL] ← 0

.fi
.RE

.SS VDIVPD (VEX.256 encoded version)
.PP
.RS

.nf
DEST[63:0]←SRC1[63:0] / SRC2[63:0]
DEST[127:64]←SRC1[127:64] / SRC2[127:64]
DEST[191:128]←SRC1[191:128] / SRC2[191:128]
DEST[255:192]←SRC1[255:192] / SRC2[255:192]
DEST[MAXVL\-1:256] ←0;

.fi
.RE

.SS VDIVPD (VEX.128 encoded version)
.PP
.RS

.nf
DEST[63:0]←SRC1[63:0] / SRC2[63:0]
DEST[127:64]←SRC1[127:64] / SRC2[127:64]
DEST[MAXVL\-1:128] ←0;

.fi
.RE

.SS DIVPD (128\-bit Legacy SSE version)
.PP
.RS

.nf
DEST[63:0]←SRC1[63:0] / SRC2[63:0]
DEST[127:64]←SRC1[127:64] / SRC2[127:64]
DEST[MAXVL\-1:128] (Unmodified)

.fi
.RE

.SH INTEL C/C++ COMPILER INTRINSIC EQUIVALENT
.PP
.RS

.nf
VDIVPD \_\_m512d \_mm512\_div\_pd( \_\_m512d a, \_\_m512d b);

VDIVPD \_\_m512d \_mm512\_mask\_div\_pd(\_\_m512d s, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m512d a, \_\_m512d b);

VDIVPD \_\_m512d \_mm512\_maskz\_div\_pd( \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m512d a, \_\_m512d b);

VDIVPD \_\_m256d \_mm256\_mask\_div\_pd(\_\_m256d s, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m256d a, \_\_m256d b);

VDIVPD \_\_m256d \_mm256\_maskz\_div\_pd( \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m256d a, \_\_m256d b);

VDIVPD \_\_m128d \_mm\_mask\_div\_pd(\_\_m128d s, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m128d a, \_\_m128d b);

VDIVPD \_\_m128d \_mm\_maskz\_div\_pd( \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m128d a, \_\_m128d b);

VDIVPD \_\_m512d \_mm512\_div\_round\_pd( \_\_m512d a, \_\_m512d b, int);

VDIVPD \_\_m512d \_mm512\_mask\_div\_round\_pd(\_\_m512d s, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m512d a, \_\_m512d b, int);

VDIVPD \_\_m512d \_mm512\_maskz\_div\_round\_pd( \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m512d a, \_\_m512d b, int);

VDIVPD \_\_m256d \_mm256\_div\_pd (\_\_m256d a, \_\_m256d b);

DIVPD \_\_m128d \_mm\_div\_pd (\_\_m128d a, \_\_m128d b);

.fi
.RE

.SH SIMD FLOATING\-POINT EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Overflow, Underflow, Invalid, Divide\-by\-Zero, Precision, Denormal

.SH OTHER EXCEPTIONS
.PP
VEX\-encoded instructions, see Exceptions Type 2.

.PP
EVEX\-encoded instructions, see Exceptions Type E2.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
