.nh
.TH "X86-VPTERNLOGD-VPTERNLOGQ" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
VPTERNLOGD-VPTERNLOGQ - BITWISE TERNARY LOGIC
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode/Instruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64/32 bit Mode Support\fR	\fB\fCCPUID Feature Flag\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
T{
EVEX.128.66.0F3A.W0 25 /r ib VPTERNLOGD xmm1 {k1}{z}, xmm2, xmm3/m128/m32bcst, imm8
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512F	T{
Bitwise ternary logic taking xmm1, xmm2 and xmm3/m128/m32bcst as source operands and writing the result to xmm1 under writemask k1 with dword granularity. The immediate value determines the specific binary function being implemented.
T}
T{
EVEX.256.66.0F3A.W0 25 /r ib VPTERNLOGD ymm1 {k1}{z}, ymm2, ymm3/m256/m32bcst, imm8
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512F	T{
Bitwise ternary logic taking ymm1, ymm2 and ymm3/m256/m32bcst as source operands and writing the result to ymm1 under writemask k1 with dword granularity. The immediate value determines the specific binary function being implemented.
T}
T{
EVEX.512.66.0F3A.W0 25 /r ib VPTERNLOGD zmm1 {k1}{z}, zmm2, zmm3/m512/m32bcst, imm8
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512F	T{
Bitwise ternary logic taking zmm1, zmm2 and zmm3/m512/m32bcst as source operands and writing the result to zmm1 under writemask k1 with dword granularity. The immediate value determines the specific binary function being implemented.
T}
T{
EVEX.128.66.0F3A.W1 25 /r ib VPTERNLOGQ xmm1 {k1}{z}, xmm2, xmm3/m128/m64bcst, imm8
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512F	T{
Bitwise ternary logic taking xmm1, xmm2 and xmm3/m128/m64bcst as source operands and writing the result to xmm1 under writemask k1 with qword granularity. The immediate value determines the specific binary function being implemented.
T}
T{
EVEX.256.66.0F3A.W1 25 /r ib VPTERNLOGQ ymm1 {k1}{z}, ymm2, ymm3/m256/m64bcst, imm8
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512F	T{
Bitwise ternary logic taking ymm1, ymm2 and ymm3/m256/m64bcst as source operands and writing the result to ymm1 under writemask k1 with qword granularity. The immediate value determines the specific binary function being implemented.
T}
T{
EVEX.512.66.0F3A.W1 25 /r ib VPTERNLOGQ zmm1 {k1}{z}, zmm2, zmm3/m512/m64bcst, imm8
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512F	T{
Bitwise ternary logic taking zmm1, zmm2 and zmm3/m512/m64bcst as source operands and writing the result to zmm1 under writemask k1 with qword granularity. The immediate value determines the specific binary function being implemented.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
Op/En	Tuple Type	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
A	Full	ModRM:reg (r, w)	EVEX.vvvv (r)	ModRM:r/m (r)	Imm8
.TE

.SS Description
.PP
VPTERNLOGD/Q takes three bit vectors of 512\-bit length (in the first,
second and third operand) as input data to form a set of 512 indices,
each index is comprised of one bit from each input vector. The imm8 byte
specifies a boolean logic table producing a binary value for each 3\-bit
index value. The final 512\-bit boolean result is written to the
destination operand (the first operand) using the writemask k1 with the
granularity of doubleword element or quadword element into the
destination.

.PP
The destination operand is a ZMM (EVEX.512)/YMM (EVEX.256)/XMM
(EVEX.128) register. The first source operand is a ZMM/YMM/XMM register.
The second source operand can be a ZMM/YMM/XMM register, a
512/256/128\-bit memory location or a 512/256/128\-bit vector broadcasted
from a 32/64\-bit memory location The destination operand is a ZMM
register conditionally updated with writemask k1.

.PP
Table 5\-18 shows two examples of Boolean functions specified by
immediate values 0xE2 and 0xE4, with the look up result listed in the
fourth column following the three columns containing all possible values
of the 3\-bit index.

.PP
VPTERNLOGD reg1, reg2, src3, 0xE2

.PP
Bit Result with Imm8=0xE2

.PP
VPTERNLOGD reg1, reg2, src3, 0xE4

.PP
Bit Result with Imm8=0xE4

.PP
Bit(reg1)

.PP
Bit(reg2)

.PP
Bit(src3)

.PP
Bit(reg1)

.PP
Bit(reg2)

.PP
Bit(src3)

.PP
0

.PP
0

.PP
0

.PP
0

.PP
0

.PP
0

.PP
0

.PP
0

.PP
0

.PP
0

.PP
1

.PP
1

.PP
0

.PP
0

.PP
1

.PP
0

.PP
0

.PP
1

.PP
0

.PP
0

.PP
0

.PP
1

.PP
0

.PP
1

.PP
0

.PP
1

.PP
1

.PP
0

.PP
0

.PP
1

.PP
1

.PP
0

.PP
1

.PP
0

.PP
0

.PP
0

.PP
1

.PP
0

.PP
0

.PP
0

.PP
1

.PP
0

.PP
1

.PP
1

.PP
1

.PP
0

.PP
1

.PP
1

.PP
1

.PP
1

.PP
0

.PP
1

.PP
1

.PP
1

.PP
0

.PP
1

.PP
1

.PP
1

.PP
1

.PP
1

.PP
1

.PP
1

.PP
1

.PP
1

.PP
Table 5\-18. Examples of VPTERNLOGD/Q Imm8 Boolean Function and Input
Index Values

.PP
Specifying different values in imm8 will allow any arbitrary three\-input
Boolean functions to be implemented in software using VPTERNLOGD/Q.
Table 5\-10 and Table 5\-11 provide a mapping of all 256
possible imm8 values to various Boolean expressions.

.SS Operation
.SS VPTERNLOGD (EVEX encoded versions)
.PP
.RS

.nf
(KL, VL) = (4, 128), (8, 256), (16, 512)
FOR j←0 TO KL\-1
    i←j * 32
    IF k1[j] OR *no writemask*
        THEN
            FOR k←0 TO 31
                IF (EVEX.b = 1) AND (SRC2 *is memory*)
                    THEN DEST[j][k] ← imm[(DEST[i+k] << 2) + (SRC1[ i+k ] << 1) + SRC2[ k ]]
                    ELSE DEST[j][k] ← imm[(DEST[i+k] << 2) + (SRC1[ i+k ] << 1) + SRC2[ i+k ]]
                FI;
                        ; table lookup of immediate bellow;
    ELSE
        IF *merging\-masking* ; merging\-masking
            THEN *DEST[31+i:i] remains unchanged*
            ELSE ; zeroing\-masking
                DEST[31+i:i] ← 0
        FI;
    FI;
ENDFOR;
DEST[MAXVL\-1:VL] ← 0

.fi
.RE

.SS VPTERNLOGQ (EVEX encoded versions)
.PP
.RS

.nf
(KL, VL) = (2, 128), (4, 256), (8, 512)
FOR j←0 TO KL\-1
    i←j * 64
    IF k1[j] OR *no writemask*
        THEN
            FOR k←0 TO 63
                IF (EVEX.b = 1) AND (SRC2 *is memory*)
                    THEN DEST[j][k] ← imm[(DEST[i+k] << 2) + (SRC1[ i+k ] << 1) + SRC2[ k ]]
                    ELSE DEST[j][k] ← imm[(DEST[i+k] << 2) + (SRC1[ i+k ] << 1) + SRC2[ i+k ]]
                FI; ; table lookup of immediate bellow;
        ELSE
            IF *merging\-masking* ; merging\-masking
                THEN *DEST[63+i:i] remains unchanged*
                ELSE ; zeroing\-masking
                    DEST[63+i:i] ← 0
            FI;
    FI;
ENDFOR;
DEST[MAXVL\-1:VL] ← 0

.fi
.RE

.SS Intel C/C++ Compiler Intrinsic Equivalents
.PP
.RS

.nf
VPTERNLOGD \_\_m512i \_mm512\_ternarylogic\_epi32(\_\_m512i a, \_\_m512i b, int imm);

VPTERNLOGD \_\_m512i \_mm512\_mask\_ternarylogic\_epi32(\_\_m512i s, \_\_mmask16 m, \_\_m512i a, \_\_m512i b, int imm);

VPTERNLOGD \_\_m512i \_mm512\_maskz\_ternarylogic\_epi32(\_\_mmask m, \_\_m512i a, \_\_m512i b, int imm);

VPTERNLOGD \_\_m256i \_mm256\_ternarylogic\_epi32(\_\_m256i a, \_\_m256i b, int imm);

VPTERNLOGD \_\_m256i \_mm256\_mask\_ternarylogic\_epi32(\_\_m256i s, \_\_mmask8 m, \_\_m256i a, \_\_m256i b, int imm);

VPTERNLOGD \_\_m256i \_mm256\_maskz\_ternarylogic\_epi32( \_\_mmask8 m, \_\_m256i a, \_\_m256i b, int imm);

VPTERNLOGD \_\_m128i \_mm\_ternarylogic\_epi32(\_\_m128i a, \_\_m128i b, int imm);

VPTERNLOGD \_\_m128i \_mm\_mask\_ternarylogic\_epi32(\_\_m128i s, \_\_mmask8 m, \_\_m128i a, \_\_m128i b, int imm);

VPTERNLOGD \_\_m128i \_mm\_maskz\_ternarylogic\_epi32( \_\_mmask8 m, \_\_m128i a, \_\_m128i b, int imm);

VPTERNLOGQ \_\_m512i \_mm512\_ternarylogic\_epi64(\_\_m512i a, \_\_m512i b, int imm);

VPTERNLOGQ \_\_m512i \_mm512\_mask\_ternarylogic\_epi64(\_\_m512i s, \_\_mmask8 m, \_\_m512i a, \_\_m512i b, int imm);

VPTERNLOGQ \_\_m512i \_mm512\_maskz\_ternarylogic\_epi64( \_\_mmask8 m, \_\_m512i a, \_\_m512i b, int imm);

VPTERNLOGQ \_\_m256i \_mm256\_ternarylogic\_epi64(\_\_m256i a, \_\_m256i b, int imm);

VPTERNLOGQ \_\_m256i \_mm256\_mask\_ternarylogic\_epi64(\_\_m256i s, \_\_mmask8 m, \_\_m256i a, \_\_m256i b, int imm);

VPTERNLOGQ \_\_m256i \_mm256\_maskz\_ternarylogic\_epi64( \_\_mmask8 m, \_\_m256i a, \_\_m256i b, int imm);

VPTERNLOGQ \_\_m128i \_mm\_ternarylogic\_epi64(\_\_m128i a, \_\_m128i b, int imm);

VPTERNLOGQ \_\_m128i \_mm\_mask\_ternarylogic\_epi64(\_\_m128i s, \_\_mmask8 m, \_\_m128i a, \_\_m128i b, int imm);

VPTERNLOGQ \_\_m128i \_mm\_maskz\_ternarylogic\_epi64( \_\_mmask8 m, \_\_m128i a, \_\_m128i b, int imm);

.fi
.RE

.SS SIMD Floating\-Point Exceptions
.PP
None

.SS Other Exceptions
.PP
See Exceptions Type E4.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
