.nh
.TH "X86-ETRACK" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
ETRACK - ACTIVATES EBLOCK CHECKS
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode/Instruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64/32 bit Mode Support\fR	\fB\fCCPUID Feature Flag\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
EAX = 0CH ENCLS[ETRACK]	IR	V/V	SGX1	T{
This leaf function activates EBLOCK checks.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.PP
Op/En

.PP
EAX

.PP
RCX

.PP
IR

.PP
ETRACK (In)

.PP
Return error code (Out)

.PP
Pointer to the SECS of the EPC page (In)

.SS Description
.PP
This leaf function provides the mechanism for hardware to track that
software has completed the required TLB address clears successfully. The
instruction can only be executed when the current privilege level is 0.

.PP
The content of RCX is an effective address of an EPC page.

.PP
The table below provides additional information on the memory parameter
of ETRACK leaf function.

.SH ETRACK MEMORY PARAMETER SEMANTICS
.TS
allbox;
l 
l .
EPCPAGE
T{
Read/Write access permitted by Enclave
T}
.TE

.PP
The error codes are:

.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
\fB\fCError Code (see Table 40\-4)\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
No Error	ETRACK successful.
SGX\_PREV\_TRK\_INCMPL	T{
All processors did not complete the previous shoot\-down sequence.
T}
.TE

.PP
Table 40\-45\&. ETRACK Return Value in
RAX

.SS Concurrency Restrictions
.PP
Leaf

.PP
Parameter

.PP
Base Concurrency Restrictions

.PP
Access

.PP
On Conflict

.PP
SGX\_CONFLICT VM Exit Qualification

.PP
ETRACK

.PP
SECS [DS:RCX]

.PP
Shared

.PP
#GP

.PP
Table 40\-46\&. Base Concurrency
Restrictions of ETRACK

.PP
Leaf

.PP
Parameter

.PP
Additional Concurrency Restrictions

.PP
vs. EACCEPT, EACCEPTCOPY, EMODPE, EMODPR, EMODT

.PP
vs. EADD, EEXTEND, EINIT

.PP
vs. ETRACK, ETRACKC

.PP
Access

.PP
On Conflict

.PP
Access

.PP
On Conflict

.PP
Access

.PP
On Conflict

.PP
ETRACK

.PP
SECS [DS:RCX]

.PP
Concurrent

.PP
Concurrent

.PP
Exclusive

.PP
SGX\_EPC\_PAGE \_CONFLICT

.PP
Table 40\-47\&. Additional Concurrency
Restrictions of ETRACK

.SS Operation
.PP
.RS

.nf
IF (DS:RCX is not 4KByte Aligned)
    THEN #GP(0); FI;
IF (DS:RCX does not resolve within an EPC)
    THEN #PF(DS:RCX); FI;
(* Check concurrency with other Intel SGX instructions *)
IF (Other Intel SGX instructions using tracking facility on this SECS)
    THEN
        IF (<<VMX non\-root operation>> AND <<ENABLE\_EPC\_VIRTUALIZATION\_EXTENSIONS>>)
            THEN
                VMCS.Exit\_reason ← SGX\_CONFLICT;
                VMCS.Exit\_qualification.code ← TRACKING\_RESOURCE\_CONFLICT;
                VMCS.Exit\_qualification.error ← 0;
                VMCS.Guest\-physical\_address ← SECS(TMP\_SECS).ENCLAVECONTEXT;
                VMCS.Guest\-linear\_address ← 0;
            Deliver VMEXIT;
            ELSE
                #GP(0);
        FI;
FI;
IF (EPCM(DS:RCX). VALID = 0)
    THEN #PF(DS:RCX); FI;
IF (EPCM(DS:RCX).PT ≠ PT\_SECS)
    THEN #PF(DS:RCX); FI;
(* All processors must have completed the previous tracking cycle*)
IF ( (DS:RCX).TRACKING ≠ 0) )
    THEN
        IF (<<VMX non\-root operation>> AND <<ENABLE\_EPC\_VIRTUALIZATION\_EXTENSIONS>>)
            THEN
                VMCS.Exit\_reason ← SGX\_CONFLICT;
                VMCS.Exit\_qualification.code ← TRACKING\_REFERENCE\_CONFLICT;
                VMCS.Exit\_qualification.error ← 0;
                VMCS.Guest\-physical\_address ← SECS(TMP\_SECS).ENCLAVECONTEXT;
                VMCS.Guest\-linear\_address ← 0;
            Deliver VMEXIT;
        FI;
    RFLAGS.ZF ← 1;
        RAX← SGX\_PREV\_TRK\_INCMPL;
        GOTO DONE;
    ELSE
        RAX← 0;
        RFLAGS.ZF ← 0;
FI;
DONE:
RFLAGS.CF,PF,AF,OF,SF ← 0;

.fi
.RE

.SS Flags Affected
.PP
Sets ZF if SECS is in use or invalid, otherwise cleared. Clears CF, PF,
AF, OF, SF.

.SS Protected Mode Exceptions
.PP
#GP(0)

.PP
If a memory operand effective address is outside the DS segment limit.

.PP
If a memory operand is not properly aligned.

.PP
If another thread is concurrently using the tracking facility on this
SECS.

.PP
#PF(error

.PP
code) If a page fault occurs in accessing memory operands.

.PP
If a memory operand is not an EPC page.

.SS 64\-Bit Mode Exceptions
.PP
#GP(0)

.PP
If a memory operand is non\-canonical form.

.PP
If a memory operand is not properly aligned.

.PP
If the specified EPC resource is in use.

.PP
#PF(error

.PP
code) If a page fault occurs in accessing memory operands.

.PP
If a memory operand is not an EPC page.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
