.nh
.TH "X86-SAL-SAR-SHL-SHR" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
SAL-SAR-SHL-SHR - SHIFT
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode***\fR	\fB\fCInstruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64\-Bit Mode\fR	\fB\fCCompat/Leg Mode\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
D0 /4	SAL r/m8, 1	M1	Valid	Valid	Multiply r/m8 by 2, once.
REX + D0 /4	SAL r/m8**, 1	M1	Valid	N.E.	Multiply r/m8 by 2, once.
D2 /4	SAL r/m8, CL	MC	Valid	Valid	Multiply r/m8 by 2, CL times.
REX + D2 /4	SAL r/m8**, CL	MC	Valid	N.E.	Multiply r/m8 by 2, CL times.
C0 /4 ib	SAL r/m8, imm8	MI	Valid	Valid	Multiply imm8 times.
REX + C0 /4 ib	SAL r/m8**, imm8	MI	Valid	N.E.	Multiply imm8 times.
D1 /4	SAL r/m16, 1	M1	Valid	Valid	Multiply r/m16 by 2, once.
D3 /4	SAL r/m16, CL	MC	Valid	Valid	Multiply r/m16 by 2, CL times.
C1 /4 ib	SAL r/m16, imm8	MI	Valid	Valid	Multiply imm8 times.
D1 /4	SAL r/m32, 1	M1	Valid	Valid	Multiply r/m32 by 2, once.
REX.W + D1 /4	SAL r/m64, 1	M1	Valid	N.E.	Multiply r/m64 by 2, once.
D3 /4	SAL r/m32, CL	MC	Valid	Valid	Multiply r/m32 by 2, CL times.
REX.W + D3 /4	SAL r/m64, CL	MC	Valid	N.E.	Multiply r/m64 by 2, CL times.
C1 /4 ib	SAL r/m32, imm8	MI	Valid	Valid	Multiply imm8 times.
REX.W + C1 /4 ib	SAL r/m64, imm8	MI	Valid	N.E.	Multiply imm8 times.
D0 /7	SAR r/m8, 1	M1	Valid	Valid	Signed divide
*
 r/m8 by 2, once.
REX + D0 /7	SAR r/m8**, 1	M1	Valid	N.E.	Signed divide
*
 r/m8 by 2, once.
D2 /7	SAR r/m8, CL	MC	Valid	Valid	Signed divide
*
 r/m8 by 2, CL times.
REX + D2 /7	SAR r/m8**, CL	MC	Valid	N.E.	Signed divide
*
 r/m8 by 2, CL times.
C0 /7 ib	SAR r/m8, imm8	MI	Valid	Valid	Signed divide
*
 imm8 time.
REX + C0 /7 ib	SAR r/m8**, imm8	MI	Valid	N.E.	Signed divide
*
 imm8 times.
D1 /7	SAR r/m16,1	M1	Valid	Valid	Signed divide
*
 r/m16 by 2, once.
D3 /7	SAR r/m16, CL	MC	Valid	Valid	Signed divide
*
 r/m16 by 2, CL times.
C1 /7 ib	SAR r/m16, imm8	MI	Valid	Valid	Signed divide
*
 imm8 times.
D1 /7	SAR r/m32, 1	M1	Valid	Valid	Signed divide
*
 r/m32 by 2, once.
REX.W + D1 /7	SAR r/m64, 1	M1	Valid	N.E.	Signed divide
*
 r/m64 by 2, once.
D3 /7	SAR r/m32, CL	MC	Valid	Valid	Signed divide
*
 r/m32 by 2, CL times.
REX.W + D3 /7	SAR r/m64, CL	MC	Valid	N.E.	Signed divide
*
 r/m64 by 2, CL times.
C1 /7 ib	SAR r/m32, imm8	MI	Valid	Valid	Signed divide
*
 imm8 times.
REX.W + C1 /7 ib	SAR r/m64, imm8	MI	Valid	N.E.	Signed divide
*
 imm8 times
D0 /4	SHL r/m8, 1	M1	Valid	Valid	Multiply r/m8 by 2, once.
REX + D0 /4	SHL r/m8**, 1	M1	Valid	N.E.	Multiply r/m8 by 2, once.
D2 /4	SHL r/m8, CL	MC	Valid	Valid	Multiply r/m8 by 2, CL times.
REX + D2 /4	SHL r/m8**, CL	MC	Valid	N.E.	Multiply r/m8 by 2, CL times.
C0 /4 ib	SHL r/m8, imm8	MI	Valid	Valid	Multiply imm8 times.
REX + C0 /4 ib	SHL r/m8**, imm8	MI	Valid	N.E.	Multiply imm8 times.
D1 /4	SHL r/m16,1	M1	Valid	Valid	Multiply r/m16 by 2, once.
D3 /4	SHL r/m16, CL	MC	Valid	Valid	Multiply r/m16 by 2, CL times.
C1 /4 ib	SHL r/m16, imm8	MI	Valid	Valid	Multiply imm8 times.
D1 /4	SHL r/m32,1	M1	Valid	Valid	Multiply r/m32 by 2, once.
.TE

.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode\fR	\fB\fCInstruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64\-Bit Mode\fR	\fB\fCCompat/Leg Mode\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
REX.W + D1 /4	SHL r/m64,1	M1	Valid	N.E.	Multiply r/m64 by 2, once.
D3 /4	SHL r/m32, CL	MC	Valid	Valid	Multiply r/m32 by 2, CL times.
REX.W + D3 /4	SHL r/m64, CL	MC	Valid	N.E.	Multiply r/m64 by 2, CL times.
C1 /4 ib	SHL r/m32, imm8	MI	Valid	Valid	Multiply imm8 times.
REX.W + C1 /4 ib	SHL r/m64, imm8	MI	Valid	N.E.	Multiply imm8 times.
D0 /5	SHR r/m8,1	M1	Valid	Valid	T{
Unsigned divide r/m8 by 2, once.
T}
REX + D0 /5	SHR r/m8**, 1	M1	Valid	N.E.	T{
Unsigned divide r/m8 by 2, once.
T}
D2 /5	SHR r/m8, CL	MC	Valid	Valid	T{
Unsigned divide r/m8 by 2, CL times.
T}
REX + D2 /5	SHR r/m8**, CL	MC	Valid	N.E.	T{
Unsigned divide r/m8 by 2, CL times.
T}
C0 /5 ib	SHR r/m8, imm8	MI	Valid	Valid	Unsigned divide imm8 times.
REX + C0 /5 ib	SHR r/m8**, imm8	MI	Valid	N.E.	Unsigned divide imm8 times.
D1 /5	SHR r/m16, 1	M1	Valid	Valid	T{
Unsigned divide r/m16 by 2, once.
T}
D3 /5	SHR r/m16, CL	MC	Valid	Valid	T{
Unsigned divide r/m16 by 2, CL times
T}
C1 /5 ib	SHR r/m16, imm8	MI	Valid	Valid	Unsigned divide imm8 times.
D1 /5	SHR r/m32, 1	M1	Valid	Valid	T{
Unsigned divide r/m32 by 2, once.
T}
REX.W + D1 /5	SHR r/m64, 1	M1	Valid	N.E.	T{
Unsigned divide r/m64 by 2, once.
T}
D3 /5	SHR r/m32, CL	MC	Valid	Valid	T{
Unsigned divide r/m32 by 2, CL times.
T}
REX.W + D3 /5	SHR r/m64, CL	MC	Valid	N.E.	T{
Unsigned divide r/m64 by 2, CL times.
T}
C1 /5 ib	SHR r/m32, imm8	MI	Valid	Valid	Unsigned divide imm8 times.
REX.W + C1 /5 ib	SHR r/m64, imm8	MI	Valid	N.E.	Unsigned divide imm8 times.
.TE

.PP
.RS

.PP
* NotthesameformofdivisionasIDIV;roundingistowardnegativeinfinity.

.PP
** In 64\-bit mode, r/m8 can not be encoded to access the following
byte registers if a REX prefix is used: AH, BH, CH, DH.

.PP
***See IA\-32 Architecture Compatibility section below.

.RE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
Op/En	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
M1	ModRM:r/m (r, w)	1	NA	NA
MC	ModRM:r/m (r, w)	CL	NA	NA
MI	ModRM:r/m (r, w)	imm8	NA	NA
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Shifts the bits in the first operand (destination operand) to the left
or right by the number of bits specified in the second operand (count
operand). Bits shifted beyond the destination operand boundary are first
shifted into the CF flag, then discarded. At the end of the shift
operation, the CF flag contains the last bit shifted out of the
destination operand.

.PP
The destination operand can be a register or a memory location. The
count operand can be an immediate value or the CL register. The count is
masked to 5 bits (or 6 bits if in 64\-bit mode and REX.W is used). The
count range is limited to 0 to 31 (or 63 if 64\-bit mode and REX.W is
used). A special opcode encoding is provided for a count of 1.

.PP
The shift arithmetic left (SAL) and shift logical left (SHL)
instructions perform the same operation; they shift the bits in the
destination operand to the left (toward more significant bit locations).
For each shift count, the most significant bit of the destination
operand is shifted into the CF flag, and the least significant bit is
cleared (see Figure 7\-7 in the Intel®
64 and IA\-32 Architectures Software Developer’s Manual, Volume 1).

.PP
The shift arithmetic right (SAR) and shift logical right (SHR)
instructions shift the bits of the destination operand to the right
(toward less significant bit locations). For each shift count, the least
significant bit of the destination operand is shifted into the CF flag,
and the most significant bit is either set or cleared depending on the
instruction type. The SHR instruction clears the most significant bit
(see Figure 7\-8 in the Intel® 64 and
IA\-32 Architectures Software Developer’s Manual, Volume 1).

.PP
The SAR and SHR instructions can be used to perform signed or unsigned
division, respectively, of the destination operand by powers of 2. For
example, using the SAR instruction to shift a signed integer 1 bit to
the right divides the value by 2.

.PP
Using the SAR instruction to perform a division operation does not
produce the same result as the IDIV instruction. The quotient from the
IDIV instruction is rounded toward zero, whereas the “quotient” of the
SAR instruction is rounded toward negative infinity. This difference is
apparent only for negative numbers. For example, when the IDIV
instruction is used to divide \-9 by 4, the result is \-2 with a remainder
of \-1. If the SAR instruction is used to shift \-9 right by two bits, the
result is \-3 and the “remainder” is +3; however, the SAR instruction
stores only the most significant bit of the remainder (in the CF flag).

.PP
The OF flag is affected only on 1\-bit shifts. For left shifts, the OF
flag is set to 0 if the most\-significant bit of the result is the same
as the CF flag (that is, the top two bits of the original operand were
the same); otherwise, it is set to 1. For the SAR instruction, the OF
flag is cleared for all 1\-bit shifts. For the SHR instruction, the OF
flag is set to the most\-significant bit of the original operand.

.PP
In 64\-bit mode, the instruction’s default operation size is 32 bits and
the mask width for CL is 5 bits. Using a REX prefix in the form of REX.R
permits access to additional registers (R8\-R15). Using a REX prefix in
the form of REX.W promotes operation to 64\-bits and sets the mask width
for CL to 6 bits. See the summary chart at the beginning of this section
for encoding data and limits.

.SH IA\-32 ARCHITECTURE COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The 8086 does not mask the shift count. However, all other IA\-32
processors (starting with the Intel 286 processor) do mask the shift
count to 5 bits, resulting in a maximum count of 31. This masking is
done in all operating modes (including the virtual\-8086 mode) to reduce
the maximum execution time of the instructions.

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
IF 64\-Bit Mode and using REX.W
    THEN
        countMASK ← 3FH;
    ELSE
        countMASK ← 1FH;
FI
tempCOUNT ← (COUNT AND countMASK);
tempDEST ← DEST;
WHILE (tempCOUNT ≠ 0)
DO
    IF instruction is SAL or SHL
        THEN
            CF ← MSB(DEST);
        ELSE (* Instruction is SAR or SHR *)
            CF ← LSB(DEST);
    FI;
    IF instruction is SAL or SHL
        THEN
            DEST ← DEST ∗ 2;
        ELSE
            IF instruction is SAR
                THEN
                    DEST ← DEST / 2; (* Signed divide, rounding toward negative infinity *)
                ELSE (* Instruction is SHR *)
                    DEST ← DEST / 2 ; (* Unsigned divide *)
            FI;
    FI;
    tempCOUNT ← tempCOUNT – 1;
OD;
(* Determine overflow for the various instructions *)
IF (COUNT and countMASK) = 1
    THEN
        IF instruction is SAL or SHL
            THEN
                OF ← MSB(DEST) XOR CF;
            ELSE
                IF instruction is SAR
                    THEN
                        OF ← 0;
                    ELSE (* Instruction is SHR *)
                        OF ← MSB(tempDEST);
                FI;
        FI;
    ELSE IF (COUNT AND countMASK) = 0
        THEN
            All flags unchanged;
        ELSE (* COUNT not 1 or 0 *)
            OF ← undefined;
    FI;
FI;

.fi
.RE

.SH FLAGS AFFECTED
.PP
The CF flag contains the value of the last bit shifted out of the
destination operand; it is undefined for SHL and SHR instructions where
the count is greater than or equal to the size (in bits) of the
destination operand. The OF flag is affected only for 1\-bit shifts (see
“Description” above); otherwise, it is undefined. The SF, ZF, and PF
flags are set according to the result. If the count is 0, the flags are
not affected. For a non\-zero count, the AF flag is undefined.

.SH PROTECTED MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If the destination is located in a non\-writable segment.
T}
	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
	T{
If the DS, ES, FS, or GS register contains a NULL segment selector.
T}
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made while the current privilege level is 3.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH REAL\-ADDRESS MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
#SS	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH VIRTUAL\-8086 MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH COMPATIBILITY MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH 64\-BIT MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory address referencing the SS segment is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#GP(0)	T{
If the memory address is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made while the current privilege level is 3.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
