.nh
.TH "X86-BTS" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
BTS - BIT TEST AND SET
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode\fR	\fB\fCInstruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64\-bit Mode\fR	\fB\fCCompat/Leg Mode\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
0F AB /r	BTS r/m16, r16	MR	Valid	Valid	T{
Store selected bit in CF flag and set.
T}
0F AB /r	BTS r/m32, r32	MR	Valid	Valid	T{
Store selected bit in CF flag and set.
T}
REX.W + 0F AB /r	BTS r/m64, r64	MR	Valid	N.E.	T{
Store selected bit in CF flag and set.
T}
0F BA /5 ib	BTS r/m16, imm8	MI	Valid	Valid	T{
Store selected bit in CF flag and set.
T}
0F BA /5 ib	BTS r/m32, imm8	MI	Valid	Valid	T{
Store selected bit in CF flag and set.
T}
REX.W + 0F BA /5 ib	BTS r/m64, imm8	MI	Valid	N.E.	T{
Store selected bit in CF flag and set.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
Op/En	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
MR	ModRM:r/m (r, w)	ModRM:reg (r)	NA	NA
MI	ModRM:r/m (r, w)	imm8	NA	NA
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Selects the bit in a bit string (specified with the first operand,
called the bit base) at the bit\-position designated by the bit offset
operand (second operand), stores the value of the bit in the CF flag,
and sets the selected bit in the bit string to 1. The bit base operand
can be a register or a memory location; the bit offset operand can be a
register or an immediate value:

.RS
.IP \(bu 2
If the bit base operand specifies a register, the instruction takes
the modulo 16, 32, or 64 of the bit offset operand (modulo size
depends on the mode and register size; 64\-bit operands are available
only in 64\-bit mode). This allows any bit position to be selected.
.IP \(bu 2
If the bit base operand specifies a memory location, the operand
represents the address of the byte in memory that contains the bit
base (bit 0 of the specified byte) of the bit string. The range of
the bit position that can be referenced by the offset operand
depends on the operand size.

.RE

.PP
See also: Bit(BitBase, BitOffset) on page 3\-11.

.PP
Some assemblers support immediate bit offsets larger than 31 by using
the immediate bit offset field in combination with the displacement
field of the memory operand. See “BT—Bit Test” in this chapter for more
information on this addressing mechanism.

.PP
This instruction can be used with a LOCK prefix to allow the instruction
to be executed atomically.

.PP
In 64\-bit mode, the instruction’s default operation size is 32 bits.
Using a REX prefix in the form of REX.R permits access to additional
registers (R8\-R15). Using a REX prefix in the form of REX.W promotes
operation to 64 bits. See the summary chart at the beginning of this
section for encoding data and limits.

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
CF ← Bit(BitBase, BitOffset);
Bit(BitBase, BitOffset) ← 1;

.fi
.RE

.SH FLAGS AFFECTED
.PP
The CF flag contains the value of the selected bit before it is set. The
ZF flag is unaffected. The OF, SF, AF, and PF flags are undefined.

.SH PROTECTED MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If the destination operand points to a non\-writable segment.
T}
	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
	T{
If the DS, ES, FS, or GS register contains a NULL segment selector.
T}
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made while the current privilege level is 3.
T}
#UD	T{
If the LOCK prefix is used but the destination is not a memory operand.
T}
.TE

.SH REAL\-ADDRESS MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
#SS	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#UD	T{
If the LOCK prefix is used but the destination is not a memory operand.
T}
.TE

.SH VIRTUAL\-8086 MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
#SS	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made.
T}
#UD	T{
If the LOCK prefix is used but the destination is not a memory operand.
T}
.TE

.SH COMPATIBILITY MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH 64\-BIT MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory address referencing the SS segment is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#GP(0)	T{
If the memory address is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made while the current privilege level is 3.
T}
#UD	T{
If the LOCK prefix is used but the destination is not a memory operand.
T}
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
