.nh
.TH "X86-PUSH" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
PUSH - PUSH WORD, DOUBLEWORD OR QUADWORD ONTO THE STACK
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode*\fR	\fB\fCInstruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64\-Bit Mode\fR	\fB\fCCompat/Leg Mode\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
FF /6	PUSH r/m16	M	Valid	Valid	Push r/m16.
FF /6	PUSH r/m32	M	N.E.	Valid	Push r/m32.
FF /6	PUSH r/m64	M	Valid	N.E.	Push r/m64.
50+rw	PUSH r16	O	Valid	Valid	Push r16.
50+rd	PUSH r32	O	N.E.	Valid	Push r32.
50+rd	PUSH r64	O	Valid	N.E.	Push r64.
6A ib	PUSH imm8	I	Valid	Valid	Push imm8.
68 iw	PUSH imm16	I	Valid	Valid	Push imm16.
68 id	PUSH imm32	I	Valid	Valid	Push imm32.
0E	PUSH CS	ZO	Invalid	Valid	Push CS.
16	PUSH SS	ZO	Invalid	Valid	Push SS.
1E	PUSH DS	ZO	Invalid	Valid	Push DS.
06	PUSH ES	ZO	Invalid	Valid	Push ES.
0F A0	PUSH FS	ZO	Valid	Valid	Push FS.
0F A8	PUSH GS	ZO	Valid	Valid	Push GS.
.TE

.PP
.RS

.PP
* SeeIA\-32ArchitectureCompatibilitysectionbelow.

.RE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
Op/En	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
M	ModRM:r/m (r)	NA	NA	NA
O	opcode + rd (r)	NA	NA	NA
I	imm8/16/32	NA	NA	NA
ZO	NA	NA	NA	NA
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Decrements the stack pointer and then stores the source operand on the
top of the stack. Address and operand sizes are determined and used as
follows:

.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Address size. The D flag in the current code\-segment descriptor
determines the default address size; it may be overridden by an
instruction prefix (67H).

.RE

.PP
The address size is used only when referencing a source operand in
memory.

.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Operand size. The D flag in the current code\-segment descriptor
determines the default operand size; it may be overridden by
instruction prefixes (66H or REX.W).

.RE

.PP
The operand size (16, 32, or 64 bits) determines the amount by which the
stack pointer is decremented (2, 4 or 8).

.PP
If the source operand is an immediate of size less than the operand
size, a sign\-extended value is pushed on the stack. If the source
operand is a segment register (16 bits) and the operand size is 64\-bits,
a zero\-extended value is pushed on the stack; if the operand size is
32\-bits, either a zero\-extended value is pushed on the stack or the
segment selector is written on the stack using a 16\-bit move. For the
last case, all recent Core and Atom processors perform a 16\-bit move,
leaving the upper portion of the stack location unmodified.

.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Stack\-address size. Outside of 64\-bit mode, the B flag in the
current stack\-segment descriptor determines the size of the stack
pointer (16 or 32 bits); in 64\-bit mode, the size of the stack
pointer is always 64 bits. The stack\-address size determines the
width of the stack pointer when writing to the stack in memory and
when decrementing the stack pointer. (As stated above, the amount by
which the stack pointer is decremented is determined by the operand
size.) If the operand size is less than the stack\-address size, the
PUSH instruction may result in a misaligned stack pointer (a stack
pointer that is not aligned on a doubleword or quadword boundary).

.RE

.PP
The PUSH ESP instruction pushes the value of the ESP register as it
existed before the instruction was executed. If a PUSH instruction uses
a memory operand in which the ESP register is used for computing the
operand address, the address of the operand is computed before the ESP
register is decremented.

.PP
If the ESP or SP register is 1 when the PUSH instruction is executed in
real\-address mode, a stack\-fault exception (#SS) is generated (because
the limit of the stack segment is violated). Its delivery encounters a
second stack\-fault exception (for the same reason), causing generation
of a double\-fault exception (#DF). Delivery of the double\-fault
exception encounters a third stack\-fault exception, and the logical
processor enters shutdown mode. See the discussion of the double\-fault
exception in Chapter 6 of the Intel® 64 and IA\-32 Architectures Software
Developer’s Manual, Volume 3A.

.SH IA\-32 ARCHITECTURE COMPATIBILITY
.PP
For IA\-32 processors from the Intel 286 on, the PUSH ESP instruction
pushes the value of the ESP register as it existed before the
instruction was executed. (This is also true for Intel 64 architecture,
real\-address and virtual\-8086 modes of IA\-32 architecture.) For the
Intel® 8086 processor, the PUSH SP instruction pushes the new value of
the SP register (that is the value after it has been decremented by 2).

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
(* See Description section for possible sign\-extension or zero\-extension of source operand and for *)
(* a case in which the size of the memory store may be
                    smaller than the instruction’s operand size *)
IF StackAddrSize = 64
    THEN
        IF OperandSize = 64
            THEN
                RSP ← RSP – 8;
                Memory[SS:RSP] ← SRC;
                    (* push quadword *)
        ELSE IF OperandSize = 32
            THEN
                RSP ← RSP – 4;
                Memory[SS:RSP] ← SRC;
                    (* push dword *)
            ELSE (* OperandSize = 16 *)
                RSP ← RSP – 2;
                Memory[SS:RSP] ← SRC;
                    (* push word *)
        FI;
ELSE IF StackAddrSize = 32
    THEN
        IF OperandSize = 64
            THEN
                ESP ← ESP – 8;
                Memory[SS:ESP] ← SRC;
                    (* push quadword *)
        ELSE IF OperandSize = 32
            THEN
                ESP ← ESP – 4;
                Memory[SS:ESP] ← SRC;
                    (* push dword *)
            ELSE (* OperandSize = 16 *)
                ESP ← ESP – 2;
                Memory[SS:ESP] ← SRC;
                    (* push word *)
        FI;
    ELSE (* StackAddrSize = 16 *)
        IF OperandSize = 32
            THEN
                SP ← SP – 4;
                Memory[SS:SP] ← SRC;
                    (* push dword *)
            ELSE (* OperandSize = 16 *)
                SP ← SP – 2;
                Memory[SS:SP] ← SRC;
                    (* push word *)
        FI;
FI;

.fi
.RE

.SH FLAGS AFFECTED
.PP
None.

.SH PROTECTED MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
	T{
If the DS, ES, FS, or GS register is used to access memory and it contains a NULL segment selector.
T}
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made while the current privilege level is 3.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH REAL\-ADDRESS MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
#SS	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
	T{
If the new value of the SP or ESP register is outside the stack segment limit.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH VIRTUAL\-8086 MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH COMPATIBILITY MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH 64\-BIT MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If the memory address is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#SS(0)	T{
If the stack address is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made while the current privilege level is 3.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
	T{
If the PUSH is of CS, SS, DS, or ES.
T}
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
