.nh
.TH "X86-SCAS-SCASB-SCASW-SCASD" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
SCAS-SCASB-SCASW-SCASD - SCAN STRING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode\fR	\fB\fCInstruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64\-Bit Mode\fR	\fB\fCCompat/Leg Mode\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
AE	SCAS m8	ZO	Valid	Valid	T{
Compare AL with byte at ES:(E)DI or RDI, then set status flags.
T}
*
AF	SCAS m16	ZO	Valid	Valid	T{
Compare AX with word at ES:(E)DI or RDI, then set status flags.
T}
*
AF	SCAS m32	ZO	Valid	Valid	T{
Compare EAX with doubleword at ES(E)DI or RDI then set status flags.
T}
*
REX.W + AF	SCAS m64	ZO	Valid	N.E.	T{
Compare RAX with quadword at RDI or EDI then set status flags.
T}
AE	SCASB	ZO	Valid	Valid	T{
Compare AL with byte at ES:(E)DI or RDI then set status flags.
T}
*
AF	SCASW	ZO	Valid	Valid	T{
Compare AX with word at ES:(E)DI or RDI then set status flags.
T}
*
AF	SCASD	ZO	Valid	Valid	T{
Compare EAX with doubleword at ES:(E)DI or RDI then set status flags.
T}
*
REX.W + AF	SCASQ	ZO	Valid	N.E.	T{
Compare RAX with quadword at RDI or EDI then set status flags.
T}
.TE

.PP
.RS

.PP
*
In64\-bitmode,only64\-bit(RDI)and32\-bit(EDI)addresssizesaresupported.Innon\-64\-bitmode,only32\-bit(EDI)and16\-bit(DI)
address sizes are supported.

.RE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
Op/En	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
ZO	NA	NA	NA	NA
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
In non\-64\-bit modes and in default 64\-bit mode: this instruction
compares a byte, word, doubleword or quadword specified using a memory
operand with the value in AL, AX, or EAX. It then sets status flags in
EFLAGS recording the results. The memory operand address is read from
ES:(E)DI register (depending on the address\-size attribute of the
instruction and the current operational mode). Note that ES cannot be
overridden with a segment override prefix.

.PP
At the assembly\-code level, two forms of this instruction are allowed.
The explicit\-operand form and the no\-operands form. The explicit\-operand
form (specified using the SCAS mnemonic) allows a memory operand to be
specified explicitly. The memory operand must be a symbol that indicates
the size and location of the operand value. The register operand is then
automatically selected to match the size of the memory operand (AL
register for byte comparisons, AX for word comparisons, EAX for
doubleword comparisons). The explicit\-operand form is provided to allow
documentation. Note that the documentation provided by this form can be
misleading. That is, the memory operand symbol must specify the correct
type (size) of the operand (byte, word, or doubleword) but it does not
have to specify the correct location. The location is always specified
by ES:(E)DI.

.PP
The no\-operands form of the instruction uses a short form of SCAS.
Again, ES:(E)DI is assumed to be the memory operand and AL, AX, or EAX
is assumed to be the register operand. The size of operands is selected
by the mnemonic: SCASB (byte comparison), SCASW (word comparison), or
SCASD (doubleword comparison).

.PP
After the comparison, the (E)DI register is incremented or decremented
automatically according to the setting of the DF flag in the EFLAGS
register. If the DF flag is 0, the (E)DI register is incremented; if the
DF flag is 1, the (E)DI register is decremented. The register is
incremented or decremented by 1 for byte operations, by 2 for word
operations, and by 4 for doubleword operations.

.PP
SCAS, SCASB, SCASW, SCASD, and SCASQ can be preceded by the REP prefix
for block comparisons of ECX bytes, words, doublewords, or quadwords.
Often, however, these instructions will be used in a LOOP construct that
takes

.PP
some action based on the setting of status flags. See “REP/REPE/REPZ
/REPNE/REPNZ—Repeat String Operation Prefix” in this chapter for a
description of the REP prefix.

.PP
In 64\-bit mode, the instruction’s default address size is 64\-bits,
32\-bit address size is supported using the prefix 67H. Using a REX
prefix in the form of REX.W promotes operation on doubleword operand to
64 bits. The 64\-bit no\-operand mnemonic is SCASQ. Address of the memory
operand is specified in either RDI or EDI, and AL/AX/EAX/RAX may be used
as the register operand. After a comparison, the destination register is
incremented or decremented by the current operand size (depending on the
value of the DF flag). See the summary chart at the beginning of this
section for encoding data and limits.

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
Non\-64\-bit Mode:
IF (Byte comparison)
    THEN
        temp ← AL − SRC;
        SetStatusFlags(temp);
            THEN IF DF = 0
                THEN (E)DI ← (E)DI + 1;
                ELSE (E)DI ← (E)DI – 1; FI;
    ELSE IF (Word comparison)
        THEN
            temp ← AX − SRC;
            SetStatusFlags(temp);
            IF DF = 0
                THEN (E)DI ← (E)DI + 2;
                ELSE (E)DI ← (E)DI – 2; FI;
        FI;
    ELSE IF (Doubleword comparison)
        THEN
            temp ← EAX – SRC;
            SetStatusFlags(temp);
            IF DF = 0
                THEN (E)DI ← (E)DI + 4;
                ELSE (E)DI ← (E)DI – 4; FI;
        FI;
FI;
64\-bit Mode:
IF (Byte cmparison)
    THEN
        temp ← AL − SRC;
        SetStatusFlags(temp);
            THEN IF DF = 0
                THEN (R|E)DI ← (R|E)DI + 1;
                ELSE (R|E)DI ← (R|E)DI – 1; FI;
    ELSE IF (Word comparison)
        THEN
            temp ← AX − SRC;
            SetStatusFlags(temp);
            IF DF = 0
                THEN (R|E)DI ← (R|E)DI + 2;
                ELSE (R|E)DI ← (R|E)DI – 2; FI;
        FI;
    ELSE IF (Doubleword comparison)
        THEN
            temp ← EAX – SRC;
            SetStatusFlags(temp);
            IF DF = 0
                THEN (R|E)DI ← (R|E)DI + 4;
                ELSE (R|E)DI ← (R|E)DI – 4; FI;
        FI;
    ELSE IF (Quadword comparison using REX.W )
        THEN
            temp ← RAX − SRC;
            SetStatusFlags(temp);
            IF DF = 0
                THEN (R|E)DI ← (R|E)DI + 8;
                ELSE (R|E)DI ← (R|E)DI – 8;
            FI;
    FI;
F

.fi
.RE

.SH FLAGS AFFECTED
.PP
The OF, SF, ZF, AF, PF, and CF flags are set according to the temporary
result of the comparison.

.SH PROTECTED MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the limit of the ES segment.
T}
	T{
If the ES register contains a NULL segment selector.
T}
	T{
If an illegal memory operand effective address in the ES segment is given.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made while the current privilege level is 3.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH REAL\-ADDRESS MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
#SS	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH VIRTUAL\-8086 MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH COMPATIBILITY MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH 64\-BIT MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If the memory address is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made while the current privilege level is 3.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
