.nh
.TH "X86-EEXIT" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
EEXIT - EXITS AN ENCLAVE
.TS
allbox;
l 
l .
T{
Opcode/Op/En 64/32 CPUID Description Instruction bit Mode Feature Support Flag EAX = 04H IR V/V SGX1 This leaf function is used to exit an enclave. ENCLU
T}
[
EEXIT
]
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l 
l l l l .
Op/En	EAX	RBX	RCX
IR	EEXIT (In)	T{
Target address outside the enclave (In)
T}
	T{
Address of the current AEP (In)
T}
.TE

.SS Description
.PP
The ENCLU[EEXIT] instruction exits the currently executing enclave and
branches to the location specified in RBX. RCX receives the current AEP.
If RBX is not within the CS (32\-bit mode) or is not canonical (64\-bit
mode) a #GP(0) results.

.SH EEXIT MEMORY PARAMETER SEMANTICS
.TS
allbox;
l 
l .
Target Address
T{
Non\-Enclave read and execute access
T}
.TE

.PP
If RBX specifies an address that is inside the enclave, the instruction
will complete normally. The fetch of the next instruction will occur in
non\-enclave mode, but will attempt to fetch from inside the enclave.
This fetch returns a fixed data pattern.

.PP
If secrets are contained in any registers, it is responsibility of
enclave software to clear those registers.

.PP
If XCR0 was modified on enclave entry, it is restored to the value it
had at the time of the most recent EENTER or ERESUME.

.PP
If the enclave is opt\-out, RFLAGS.TF is loaded from the value previously
saved on EENTER.

.PP
Code and data breakpoints are unsuppressed.

.PP
Performance monitoring counters are unsuppressed.

.SS Concurrency Restrictions
.PP
Leaf

.PP
Parameter

.PP
Base Concurrency Restrictions

.PP
Access

.PP
On Conflict

.PP
SGX\_CONFLICT VM Exit Qualification

.PP
EEXIT

.PP
Concurrent

.PP
Table 40\-62\&. Base Concurrency
Restrictions of EEXIT

.PP
Leaf

.PP
Parameter

.PP
Additional Concurrency Restrictions

.PP
vs. EACCEPT, EACCEPTCOPY, EMODPE, EMODPR, EMODT

.PP
vs. EADD, EEXTEND, EINIT

.PP
vs. ETRACK, ETRACKC

.PP
Access

.PP
On Conflict

.PP
Access

.PP
On Conflict

.PP
Access

.PP
On Conflict

.PP
EEXIT

.PP
Concurrent

.PP
Concurrent

.PP
Concurrent

.PP
Table 40\-63\&. Additional Concurrency
Restrictions of EEXIT

.SS Operation
.SH TEMP VARIABLES IN EEXIT OPERATIONAL FLOW
.TS
allbox;
l l l l 
l l l l .
\fB\fCName\fR	\fB\fCType\fR	\fB\fCSize (Bits)\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
TMP\_RIP	Effective Address	32/64	T{
Saved copy of CRIP for use when creating LBR.
T}
.TE

.PP
TMP\_MODE64←((IA32\_EFER.LMA = 1) \&\& (CS.L = 1));

.PP
IF (TMP\_MODE64 = 1)

.PP
THEN

.PP
IF (RBX is not canonical) THEN #GP(0); FI;

.PP
ELSE

.PP
IF (RBX \&gt; CS limit) THEN #GP(0); FI;

.PP
FI;

.PP
TMP\_RIP ← CRIP;

.PP
RIP ← RBX;

.PP
(* Return current AEP in RCX *)

.PP
RCX ← CR\_TCS\_PA.AEP;

.PP
(* Do the FS/GS swap *)

.PP
FS.selector ← CR\_SAVE\_FS.selector;

.PP
FS.base ← CR\_SAVE\_FS.base;

.PP
FS.limit ← CR\_SAVE\_FS.limit;

.PP
FS.access\_rights ← CR\_SAVE\_FS.access\_rights;

.PP
GS.selector ← CR\_SAVE\_GS.selector;

.PP
GS.base ← CR\_SAVE\_GS.base;

.PP
GS.limit ← CR\_SAVE\_GS.limit;

.PP
GS.access\_rights ← CR\_SAVE\_GS.access\_rights;

.PP
(* Restore XCR0 if needed *)

.PP
IF (CR4.OSXSAVE = 1)

.PP
XCR0 ← CR\_SAVE\_\_XCR0;

.PP
FI;

.PP
Unsuppress\_all\_code\_breakpoints\_that\_are\_outside\_ELRANGE;

.PP
IF (CR\_DBGOPTIN = 0)

.PP
THEN

.PP
UnSuppress\_all\_code\_breakpoints\_that\_overlap\_with\_ELRANGE;

.PP
Restore suppressed breakpoint matches;

.PP
RFLAGS.TF ← CR\_SAVE\_TF;

.PP
UnSuppress\_montior\_trap\_flag;

.PP
UnSuppress\_LBR\_Generation;

.PP
UnSuppress\_performance monitoring\_activity;

.PP
Restore performance monitoring counter AnyThread demotion to MyThread in
enclave back to AnyThread

.PP
FI;

.PP
IF RFLAGS.TF = 1

.PP
THEN Pend Single\-Step #DB at the end of EEXIT;

.PP
FI;

.PP
IF the “monitor trap flag” VM\-execution control is set

.PP
THEN pend a MTF VM exit at the end of EEXIT;

.PP
FI;

.PP
CR\_ENCLAVE\_MODE ← 0;

.PP
CR\_TCS\_PA.STATE ← INACTIVE;

.PP
(* Assure consistent translations *)

.PP
Flush\_linear\_context;

.SS Flags Affected
.PP
RFLAGS.TF is restored from the value previously saved in EENTER or
ERESUME.

.SS Protected Mode Exceptions
.PP
#GP(0)

.PP
If executed outside an enclave.

.PP
If RBX is outside the CS segment.

.PP
#PF(error

.PP
code) If a page fault occurs in accessing memory.

.SS 64\-Bit Mode Exceptions
.PP
#GP(0)

.PP
If executed outside an enclave.

.PP
If RBX is not canonical.

.PP
#PF(error

.PP
code) If a page fault occurs in accessing memory operands.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
