.nh
.TH "X86-GETSEC[ENTERACCS]" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
GETSEC[ENTERACCS] - EXECUTE AUTHENTICATED CHIPSET CODE
.TS
allbox;
l l l 
l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode\fR	\fB\fCInstruction\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
NP 0F 37 (EAX = 2)	GETSEC[ENTERACCS]	T{
Enter authenticated code execution mode. EBX holds the authenticated code module physical base address. ECX holds the authenticated code module size (bytes).
T}
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The GETSEC[ENTERACCS] function loads, authenticates and executes an
authenticated code module using an Intel® TXT platform chipset's public
key. The ENTERACCS leaf of GETSEC is selected with EAX set to 2 at
entry.

.PP
There are certain restrictions enforced by the processor for the
execution of the GETSEC[ENTERACCS] instruction:

.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Execution is not allowed unless the processor is in protected mode
or IA\-32e mode with CPL = 0 and EFLAGS.VM = 0.
.IP \(bu 2
Processor cache must be available and not disabled, that is, CR0.CD
and CR0.NW bits must be 0.
.IP \(bu 2
For processor packages containing more than one logical processor,
CR0.CD is checked to ensure consistency between enabled logical
processors.
.IP \(bu 2
For enforcing consistency of operation with numeric exception
reporting using Interrupt 16, CR0.NE must be set.
.IP \(bu 2
An Intel TXT\-capable chipset must be present as communicated to the
processor by sampling of the power\-on configuration capability field
after reset.
.IP \(bu 2
The processor can not already be in authenticated code execution
mode as launched by a previous GETSEC[ENTERACCS] or
GETSEC[SENTER] instruction without a subsequent exiting using
GETSEC[EXITAC]).
.IP \(bu 2
To avoid potential operability conflicts between modes, the
processor is not allowed to execute this instruction if it currently
is in SMM or VMX operation.
.IP \(bu 2
To insure consistent handling of SIPI messages, the processor
executing the GETSEC[ENTERACCS] instruction must also be
designated the BSP (boot\-strap processor) as defined by
IA32\_APIC\_BASE.BSP (Bit 8).

.RE

.PP
Failure to conform to the above conditions results in the processor
signaling a general protection exception.

.PP
Prior to execution of the ENTERACCS leaf, other logical processors,
i.e., RLPs, in the platform must be:

.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Idle in a wait\-for\-SIPI state (as initiated by an INIT assertion or
through reset for non\-BSP designated processors), or
.IP \(bu 2
In the SENTER sleep state as initiated by a GETSEC[SENTER] from
the initiating logical processor (ILP).

.RE

.PP
If other logical processor(s) in the same package are not idle in one of
these states, execution of ENTERACCS signals a general protection
exception. The same requirement and action applies if the other logical
processor(s) of the same package do not have CR0.CD = 0.

.PP
A successful execution of ENTERACCS results in the ILP entering an
authenticated code execution mode. Prior to reaching this point, the
processor performs several checks. These include:

.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Establish and check the location and size of the specified
authenticated code module to be executed by the processor.
.IP \(bu 2
Inhibit the ILP’s response to the external events: INIT, A20M, NMI
and SMI.
.IP \(bu 2
Broadcast a message to enable protection of memory and I/O from
other processor agents.
.IP \(bu 2
Load the designated code module into an authenticated code execution
area.
.IP \(bu 2
Isolate the contents of the authenticated code execution area from
further state modification by external agents.
.IP \(bu 2
Authenticate the authenticated code module.
.IP \(bu 2
Initialize the initiating logical processor state based on
information contained in the authenticated code module header.
.IP \(bu 2
Unlock the Intel® TXT\-capable chipset private configuration space
and TPM locality 3 space.
.IP \(bu 2
Begin execution in the authenticated code module at the defined
entry point.

.RE

.PP
The GETSEC[ENTERACCS] function requires two additional input
parameters in the general purpose registers EBX and ECX. EBX holds the
authenticated code (AC) module physical base address (the AC module must
reside below 4 GBytes in physical address space) and ECX holds the AC
module size (in bytes). The physical base address and size are used to
retrieve the code module from system memory and load it into the
internal authenticated code execution area. The base physical address is
checked to verify it is on a modulo\-4096 byte boundary. The size is
verified to be a multiple of 64, that it does not exceed the internal
authenticated code execution area capacity (as reported by
GETSEC[CAPABILITIES]), and that the top address of the AC module does
not exceed 32 bits. An error condition results in an abort of the
authenticated code execution launch and the signaling of a general
protection exception.

.PP
As an integrity check for proper processor hardware operation, execution
of GETSEC[ENTERACCS] will also check the contents of all the machine
check status registers (as reported by the MSRs IA32\_MCi\_STATUS) for
any valid uncorrectable error condition. In addition, the global machine
check status register IA32\_MCG\_STATUS MCIP bit must be cleared and the
IERR processor package pin (or its equivalent) must not be asserted,
indicating that no machine check exception processing is currently in
progress. These checks are performed prior to initiating the load of the
authenticated code module. Any outstanding valid uncorrectable machine
check error condition present in these status registers at this point
will result in the processor signaling a general protection violation.

.PP
The ILP masks the response to the assertion of the external signals
INIT#, A20M, NMI#, and SMI#\&. This masking remains active until
optionally unmasked by GETSEC[EXITAC] (this defined unmasking behavior
assumes GETSEC[ENTERACCS] was not executed by a prior
GETSEC[SENTER]). The purpose of this masking control is to prevent
exposure to existing external event handlers that may not be under the
control of the authenticated code module.

.PP
The ILP sets an internal flag to indicate it has entered authenticated
code execution mode. The state of the A20M pin is likewise masked and
forced internally to a de\-asserted state so that any external assertion
is not recognized during authenticated code execution mode.

.PP
To prevent other (logical) processors from interfering with the ILP
operating in authenticated code execution mode, memory (excluding
implicit write\-back transactions) access and I/O originating from other
processor agents are blocked. This protection starts when the ILP enters
into authenticated code execution mode. Only memory and I/O transactions
initiated from the ILP are allowed to proceed. Exiting authenticated
code execution mode is done by executing GETSEC[EXITAC]\&. The
protection of memory and I/O activities remains in effect until the ILP
executes GETSEC[EXITAC]\&.

.PP
Prior to launching the authenticated execution module using
GETSEC[ENTERACCS] or GETSEC[SENTER], the processor’s MTRRs (Memory
Type Range Registers) must first be initialized to map out the
authenticated RAM addresses as WB (writeback). Failure to do so may
affect the ability for the processor to maintain isolation of the loaded
authenticated code module. If the processor detected this requirement is
not met, it will signal an Intel® TXT reset condition with an error code
during the loading of the authenticated code module.

.PP
While physical addresses within the load module must be mapped as WB,
the memory type for locations outside of the module boundaries must be
mapped to one of the supported memory types as returned by
GETSEC[PARAMETERS] (or UC as default).

.PP
To conform to the minimum granularity of MTRR MSRs for specifying the
memory type, authenticated code RAM (ACRAM) is allocated to the
processor in 4096 byte granular blocks. If an AC module size as
specified in ECX is not a multiple of 4096 then the processor will
allocate up to the next 4096 byte boundary for mapping as ACRAM with
indeterminate data. This pad area will not be visible to the
authenticated code module as external memory nor can it depend on the
value of the data used to fill the pad area.

.PP
At the successful completion of GETSEC[ENTERACCS], the architectural
state of the processor is partially initialized from contents held in
the header of the authenticated code module. The processor GDTR, CS, and
DS selectors are initialized from fields within the authenticated code
module. Since the authenticated code module must be relocatable, all
address references must be relative to the authenticated code module
base address in EBX. The processor GDTR base value is initialized to the
AC module header field GDTBasePtr + module base address held in EBX and
the GDTR limit is set to the value in the GDTLimit field. The CS
selector is initialized to the AC module header SegSel field, while the
DS selector is initialized to CS + 8. The segment descriptor fields are
implicitly initialized to BASE=0, LIMIT=FFFFFh, G=1, D=1, P=1, S=1,
read/write access for DS, and execute/read access for CS. The processor
begins the authenticated code module execution with the EIP set to the
AC module header EntryPoint field + module base address (EBX). The AC
module based fields used for initializing the processor state are
checked for consistency and any failure results in a shutdown condition.

.PP
A summary of the register state initialization after successful
completion of GETSEC[ENTERACCS] is given for the processor in Table 6\-4\&. The paging is disabled upon entry
into authenticated code execution mode. The authenticated code module is
loaded and initially executed using physical addresses. It is up to the
system software after execution of GETSEC[ENTERACCS] to establish a
new (or restore its previous) paging environment with an appropriate
mapping to meet new protection requirements. EBP is initialized to the
authenticated code module base physical address for initial execution in
the authenticated environment. As a result, the authenticated code can
reference EBP for relative address based references, given that the
authenticated code module must be position independent.

.TS
allbox;
l l l 
l l l .
\fB\fCRegister State\fR	\fB\fCInitialization Status\fR	\fB\fCComment\fR
CR0	T{
PG←0, AM←0, WP←0: Others unchanged
T}
	T{
Paging, Alignment Check, Write\-protection are disabled.
T}
CR4	MCE←0: Others unchanged	T{
Machine Check Exceptions disabled.
T}
EFLAGS	00000002H	IA32\_EFER	0H	IA\-32e mode disabled.
EIP	AC.base + EntryPoint	T{
AC.base is in EBX as input to GETSEC
T}
[
ENTERACCS
]
\&.
[E|R]BX	Pre\-ENTERACCS state: Next [E|R]IP prior to GETSEC[ENTERACCS]	T{
Carry forward 64\-bit processor state across GETSEC
T}
[
ENTERACCS
]
\&.
ECX	Pre\-ENTERACCS state: [31:16]=GDTR.limit; [15:0]=CS.sel	T{
Carry forward processor state across GETSEC
T}
[
ENTERACCS
]
\&.
[E|R]DX	Pre\-ENTERACCS state: GDTR base	T{
Carry forward 64\-bit processor state across GETSEC
T}
[
ENTERACCS
]
\&.
EBP	AC.base	CS	Sel=[SegSel]T{
, base=0, limit=FFFFFh, G=1, D=1, AR=9BH
T}
	DS	Sel=[SegSel]T{
 +8, base=0, limit=FFFFFh, G=1, D=1, AR=93H
T}
	GDTR	Base= AC.base (EBX) + [GDTBasePtr], Limit=[GDTLimit]	DR7	00000400H	IA32\_DEBUGCTL	0H	IA32\_MISC\_ENABLE	See Table 6\-5 for example.	T{
The number of initialized fields may change due to processor implementation.
T}
.TE

.PP
Table 6\-4\&. Register State
Initialization after GETSEC[ENTERACCS]

.PP
The segmentation related processor state that has not been initialized
by GETSEC[ENTERACCS] requires appropriate initialization before use.
Since a new GDT context has been established, the previous state of the
segment selector values held in ES, SS, FS, GS, TR, and LDTR might not
be valid.

.PP
The MSR IA32\_EFER is also unconditionally cleared as part of the
processor state initialized by ENTERACCS. Since paging is disabled upon
entering authenticated code execution mode, a new paging environment
will have to be reestablished in order to establish IA\-32e mode while
operating in authenticated code execution mode.

.PP
Debug exception and trap related signaling is also disabled as part of
GETSEC[ENTERACCS]\&. This is achieved by resetting DR7, TF in EFLAGs,
and the MSR IA32\_DEBUGCTL. These debug functions are free to be
re\-enabled once supporting exception handler(s), descriptor tables, and
debug registers have been properly initialized following

.PP
entry into authenticated code execution mode. Also, any pending
single\-step trap condition will have been cleared upon entry into this
mode.

.PP
The IA32\_MISC\_ENABLE MSR is initialized upon entry into authenticated
execution mode. Certain bits of this MSR are preserved because
preserving these bits may be important to maintain previously
established platform settings (See the footnote for Table 6\-5\&.). The remaining bits are cleared
for the purpose of establishing a more consistent environment for the
execution of authenticated code modules. One of the impacts of
initializing this MSR is any previous condition established by the
MONITOR instruction will be cleared.

.PP
To support the possible return to the processor architectural state
prior to execution of GETSEC[ENTERACCS], certain critical processor
state is captured and stored in the general\- purpose registers at
instruction completion. [E|R]BX holds effective address ([E|R]IP)
of the instruction that would execute next after GETSEC[ENTERACCS],
ECX[15:0] holds the CS selector value, ECX[31:16] holds the GDTR
limit field, and [E|R]DX holds the GDTR base field. The subsequent
authenticated code can preserve the contents of these registers so that
this state can be manually restored if needed, prior to exiting
authenticated code execution mode with GETSEC[EXITAC]\&. For the
processor state after exiting authenticated code execution mode, see the
description of GETSEC[SEXIT]\&.

.TS
allbox;
l l l 
l l l .
\fB\fCField\fR	\fB\fCBit position\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
Fast strings enable	0	Clear to 0.
T{
FOPCODE compatibility mode enable
T}
	2	Clear to 0.
Thermal monitor enable	3	T{
Set to 1 if other thermal monitor capability is not enabled.2
T}
Split\-lock disable	4	Clear to 0.
T{
Bus lock on cache line splits disable
T}
	8	Clear to 0.
Hardware prefetch disable	9	Clear to 0.
GV1/2 legacy enable	15	Clear to 0.
MONITOR/MWAIT s/m enable	18	Clear to 0.
T{
Adjacent sector prefetch disable
T}
	19	Clear to 0.
.TE

.PP
Table 6\-5\&. IA32\_MISC\_ENABLE MSR
Initialization1 by ENTERACCS and SENTER

.PP
.RS

.PP
1\&. The number of IA32\_MISC\_ENABLE fields that are initialized may
vary due to processor implementations.

.PP
2\&. ENTERACCS (and SENTER) initialize the state of processor thermal
throttling such that at least a minimum level is enabled. If thermal
throttling is already enabled when executing one of these GETSEC
leaves, then no change in the thermal throttling control settings will
occur. If thermal throttling is disabled, then it will be enabled via
setting of the thermal throttle control bit 3 as a result of executing
these GETSEC leaves.

.RE

.PP
The IDTR will also require reloading with a new IDT context after
entering authenticated code execution mode, before any exceptions or the
external interrupts INTR and NMI can be handled. Since external
interrupts are reenabled at the completion of authenticated code
execution mode (as terminated with EXITAC), it is recommended that a new
IDT context be established before this point. Until such a new IDT
context is established, the programmer must take care in not executing
an INT n instruction or any other operation that would result in an
exception or trap signaling.

.PP
Prior to completion of the GETSEC[ENTERACCS] instruction and after
successful authentication of the AC module, the private configuration
space of the Intel TXT chipset is unlocked. The authenticated code
module alone can gain access to this normally restricted chipset state
for the purpose of securing the platform.

.PP
Once the authenticated code module is launched at the completion of
GETSEC[ENTERACCS], it is free to enable interrupts by setting
EFLAGS.IF and enable NMI by execution of IRET. This presumes that it has
re\-established interrupt handling support through initialization of the
IDT, GDT, and corresponding interrupt handling code.

.SH OPERATION IN A UNI\-PROCESSOR PLATFORM
.PP
(* The state of the internal flag ACMODEFLAG persists across
instruction boundary *)

.PP
IF (CR4.SMXE=0)

.PP
THEN #UD;

.PP
ELSIF (in VMX non\-root operation)

.PP
THEN VM Exit (reason=”GETSEC instruction”);

.PP
ELSIF (GETSEC leaf unsupported)

.PP
THEN #UD;

.PP
ELSIF ((in VMX operation) or

.PP
(CR0.PE=0) or (CR0.CD=1) or (CR0.NW=1) or (CR0.NE=0) or

.PP
(CPL\&gt;0) or (EFLAGS.VM=1) or

.PP
(IA32\_APIC\_BASE.BSP=0) or

.PP
(TXT chipset not present) or

.PP
(ACMODEFLAG=1) or (IN\_SMM=1))

.PP
THEN #GP(0);

.PP
IF (GETSEC[PARAMETERS]\&.Parameter\_Type = 5, MCA\_Handling (bit 6) = 0)

.PP
FOR I = 0 to IA32\_MCG\_CAP.COUNT\-1 DO

.PP
IF (IA32\_MC[I]\_STATUS = uncorrectable error) THEN #GP(0);

.PP
OD;

.PP
FI;

.PP
IF (IA32\_MCG\_STATUS.MCIP=1) or (IERR pin is asserted)

.PP
THEN #GP(0);

.PP
ACBASE← EBX; ACSIZE← ECX; IF (((ACBASE MOD 4096) ≠ 0) or ((ACSIZE MOD 64
) ≠ 0 ) or (ACSIZE \&lt; minimum module size) OR (ACSIZE \&gt;
authenticated RAM capacity)) or ((ACBASE+ACSIZE) \&gt; (2^32 \-1)))

.PP
THEN #GP(0);

.PP
IF (secondary thread(s) CR0.CD = 1) or ((secondary thread(s)
NOT(wait\-for\-SIPI)) and

.PP
(secondary thread(s) not in SENTER sleep state)

.PP
THEN #GP(0);

.PP
Mask SMI, INIT, A20M, and NMI external pin events;

.PP
IA32\_MISC\_ENABLE← (IA32\_MISC\_ENABLE \& MASK\_CONST*) (* The
hexadecimal value of MASK\_CONST may vary due to processor
implementations *)

.PP
A20M← 0; IA32\_DEBUGCTL← 0; Invalidate processor TLB(s);

.PP
Drain Outgoing Transactions;

.PP
ACMODEFLAG← 1; SignalTXTMessage(ProcessorHold);

.PP
Load the internal ACRAM based on the AC module size;

.PP
(* Ensure that all ACRAM loads hit Write Back memory space *)

.PP
IF (ACRAM memory type ≠ WB)

.PP
THEN TXT\-SHUTDOWN(#BadACMMType);

.PP
IF (AC module header version isnot supported) OR (ACRAM[ModuleType] ≠
2)

.PP
THEN TXT\-SHUTDOWN(#UnsupportedACM);

.PP
(* Authenticate the AC Module and shutdown with an error if it fails
*)

.PP
KEY← GETKEY(ACRAM, ACBASE); KEYHASH← HASH(KEY); CSKEYHASH←
READ(TXT.PUBLIC.KEY); IF (KEYHASH ≠ CSKEYHASH)

.PP
THEN TXT\-SHUTDOWN(#AuthenticateFail);

.PP
SIGNATURE← DECRYPT(ACRAM, ACBASE, KEY); (* The value of
SIGNATURE\_LEN\_CONST is implementation\-specific*)

.PP
FOR I=0 to SIGNATURE\_LEN\_CONST \- 1 DO

.PP
ACRAM[SCRATCH.I]← SIGNATURE[I]; COMPUTEDSIGNATURE← HASH(ACRAM,
ACBASE, ACSIZE); FOR I=0 to SIGNATURE\_LEN\_CONST \- 1 DO

.PP
ACRAM[SCRATCH.SIGNATURE\_LEN\_CONST+I]← COMPUTEDSIGNATURE[I]; IF
(SIGNATURE ≠ COMPUTEDSIGNATURE)

.PP
THEN TXT\-SHUTDOWN(#AuthenticateFail);

.PP
ACMCONTROL← ACRAM[CodeControl]; IF ((ACMCONTROL.0 = 0) and
(ACMCONTROL.1 = 1) and (snoop hit to modified line detected on ACRAM
load))

.PP
THEN TXT\-SHUTDOWN(#UnexpectedHITM);

.PP
IF (ACMCONTROL reserved bits are set)

.PP
THEN TXT\-SHUTDOWN(#BadACMFormat);

.PP
IF ((ACRAM[GDTBasePtr] \&lt; (ACRAM[HeaderLen] * 4 + Scratch\_size))
OR

.PP
((ACRAM[GDTBasePtr] + ACRAM[GDTLimit]) \&gt;= ACSIZE))

.PP
THEN TXT\-SHUTDOWN(#BadACMFormat);

.PP
IF ((ACMCONTROL.0 = 1) and (ACMCONTROL.1 = 1) and (snoop hit to modified
line detected on ACRAM load))

.PP
THEN ACEntryPoint← ACBASE+ACRAM[ErrorEntryPoint]; ELSE

.PP
ACEntryPoint← ACBASE+ACRAM[EntryPoint]; IF ((ACEntryPoint \&gt;=
ACSIZE) OR (ACEntryPoint \&lt; (ACRAM[HeaderLen] * 4 +
Scratch\_size)))THEN TXT\-SHUTDOWN(#BadACMFormat);

.PP
IF (ACRAM[GDTLimit] \& FFFF0000h)

.PP
THEN TXT\-SHUTDOWN(#BadACMFormat);

.PP
IF ((ACRAM[SegSel] \&gt; (ACRAM[GDTLimit] \- 15)) OR (ACRAM[SegSel]
\&lt; 8))

.PP
THEN TXT\-SHUTDOWN(#BadACMFormat);

.PP
IF ((ACRAM[SegSel]\&.TI=1) OR (ACRAM[SegSel]\&.RPL≠0))

.PP
THEN TXT\-SHUTDOWN(#BadACMFormat);

.PP
CR0.[PG.AM.WP]← 0; CR4.MCE← 0; EFLAGS← 00000002h; IA32\_EFER← 0h;
[E|R]BX← [E|R]IP of the instruction after GETSEC[ENTERACCS];
ECX← Pre\-GETSEC[ENTERACCS] GDT.limit:CS.sel; [E|R]DX←
Pre\-GETSEC[ENTERACCS] GDT.base; EBP← ACBASE; GDTR.BASE←
ACBASE+ACRAM[GDTBasePtr]; GDTR.LIMIT← ACRAM[GDTLimit]; CS.SEL←
ACRAM[SegSel]; CS.BASE← 0; CS.LIMIT← FFFFFh; CS.G← 1; CS.D← 1; CS.AR←
9Bh; DS.SEL← ACRAM[SegSel]+8; DS.BASE← 0; DS.LIMIT← FFFFFh; DS.G← 1;
DS.D← 1; DS.AR← 93h; DR7← 00000400h; IA32\_DEBUGCTL← 0;
SignalTXTMsg(OpenPrivate);

.PP
SignalTXTMsg(OpenLocality3);

.PP
EIP← ACEntryPoint; END;

.SH FLAGS AFFECTED
.PP
All flags are cleared.

.SH USE OF PREFIXES
.PP
LOCK Causes #UD.

.PP
REP* Cause #UD (includes REPNE/REPNZ and REP/REPE/REPZ).

.PP
Operand size Causes #UD.

.PP
NP 66/F2/F3 prefixes are not allowed.

.PP
Segmentoverrides Ignored.

.PP
Address size Ignored.

.PP
REX Ignored.

.SH PROTECTED MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#UD	If CR4.SMXE = 0.
	If GETSEC
[
ENTERACCS
]
T{
 is not reported as supported by GETSEC
T}
[
CAPABILITIES
]
\&.
#GP(0)	T{
IfCR0.CD=1orCR0.NW=1orCR0.NE=0orCR0.PE=0orCPL
T}
\&gt;
0orEFLAGS.VM=1.
	T{
If a Intel® TXT\-capable chipset is not present.
T}
	If in VMX root operation.
	T{
If the initiating processor is not designated as the bootstrap processor via the MSR bit IA32
T}
\_
APIC
\_
BASE.BSP.
	T{
If the processor is already in authenticated code execution mode.
T}
	If the processor is in SMM.
	T{
If a valid uncorrectable machine check error is logged in IA32
T}
\_
MC
[
I
]

\_
STATUS.
	T{
If the authenticated code base is not on a 4096 byte boundary.
T}
	T{
If the authenticated code size 
T}
\&gt;
T{
 processor internal authenticated code area capacity.
T}
	T{
If the authenticated code size is not modulo 64.
T}
	T{
If other enabled logical processor(s) of the same package CR0.CD = 1.
T}
	T{
If other enabled logical processor(s) of the same package are not in the wait\-for\-SIPI or SENTER sleep state.
T}
.TE

.SH REAL\-ADDRESS MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#UD	If CR4.SMXE = 0.
	If GETSEC
[
ENTERACCS
]
T{
 is not reported as supported by GETSEC
T}
[
CAPABILITIES
]
\&.
#GP(0)	GETSEC
[
ENTERACCS
]
T{
 is not recognized in real\-address mode.
T}
.TE

.SH VIRTUAL\-8086 MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#UD	If CR4.SMXE = 0.
	If GETSEC
[
ENTERACCS
]
T{
 is not reported as supported by GETSEC
T}
[
CAPABILITIES
]
\&.
#GP(0)	GETSEC
[
ENTERACCS
]
T{
 is not recognized in virtual\-8086 mode.
T}
.TE

.SH COMPATIBILITY MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
All protected mode exceptions apply.

.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP	T{
IF AC code module does not reside in physical address below 2^32 \-1.
T}
.TE

.SH 64\-BIT MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
All protected mode exceptions apply.

.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP	T{
IF AC code module does not reside in physical address below 2^32 \-1.
T}
.TE

.SH VM\-EXIT CONDITION
.PP
Reason (GETSEC) IF in VMX non\-root operation.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
