.nh
.TH "X86-SYSRET" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
SYSRET - RETURN FROM FAST SYSTEM CALL
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode\fR	\fB\fCInstruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64\-Bit Mode\fR	\fB\fCCompat/Leg Mode\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
0F 07	SYSRET	ZO	Valid	Invalid	T{
Return to compatibility mode from fast system call
T}
REX.W + 0F 07	SYSRET	ZO	Valid	Invalid	T{
Return to 64\-bit mode from fast system call
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
Op/En	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
ZO	NA	NA	NA	NA
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
SYSRET is a companion instruction to the SYSCALL instruction. It returns
from an OS system\-call handler to user code at privilege level 3. It
does so by loading RIP from RCX and loading RFLAGS from R11.1 With a
64\-bit operand size, SYSRET remains in 64\-bit mode; otherwise, it enters
compatibility mode and only the low 32 bits of the registers are loaded.

.PP
.RS

.PP
1\&. Regardless of the value of R11, the RF and VM flags are always 0
in RFLAGS after execution of SYSRET. In addition, all reserved bits in
RFLAGS retain the fixed values.

.RE

.PP
SYSRET loads the CS and SS selectors with values derived from bits 63:48
of the IA32\_STAR MSR. However, the CS and SS descriptor caches are not
loaded from the descriptors (in GDT or LDT) referenced by those
selectors. Instead, the descriptor caches are loaded with fixed values.
See the Operation section for details. It is the responsibility of OS
software to ensure that the descriptors (in GDT or LDT) referenced by
those selector values correspond to the fixed values loaded into the
descriptor caches; the SYSRET instruction does not ensure this
correspondence.

.PP
The SYSRET instruction does not modify the stack pointer (ESP or RSP).
For that reason, it is necessary for software to switch to the user
stack. The OS may load the user stack pointer (if it was saved after
SYSCALL) before executing SYSRET; alternatively, user code may load the
stack pointer (if it was saved before SYSCALL) after receiving control
from SYSRET.

.PP
If the OS loads the stack pointer before executing SYSRET, it must
ensure that the handler of any interrupt or exception delivered between
restoring the stack pointer and successful execution of SYSRET is not
invoked with the user stack. It can do so using approaches such as the
following:

.RS
.IP \(bu 2
External interrupts. The OS can prevent an external interrupt from
being delivered by clearing EFLAGS.IF before loading the user stack
pointer.
.IP \(bu 2
Nonmaskable interrupts (NMIs). The OS can ensure that the NMI
handler is invoked with the correct stack by using the interrupt
stack table (IST) mechanism for gate 2 (NMI) in the IDT (see Section
6.14.5, “Interrupt Stack Table,” in Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual, Volume 3A).
.IP \(bu 2
General\-protection exceptions (#GP). The SYSRET instruction
generates #GP(0) if the value of RCX is not canonical. The OS can
address this possibility using one or more of the following
approaches:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Confirming that the value of RCX is canonical before executing
SYSRET.
.IP \(bu 2
Confirming that the value of RCX is canonical before executing
SYSRET.
.IP \(bu 2
Using paging to ensure that the SYSCALL instruction will never
save a non\-canonical value into RCX.
.IP \(bu 2
Using paging to ensure that the SYSCALL instruction will never
save a non\-canonical value into RCX.
.IP \(bu 2
Using the IST mechanism for gate 13 (#GP) in the IDT.
.IP \(bu 2
Using the IST mechanism for gate 13 (#GP) in the IDT.

.RE


.RE

.PP
Instruction ordering. Instructions following a SYSRET may be fetched
from memory before earlier instructions complete execution, but they
will not execute (even speculatively) until all instructions prior to
the SYSRET have completed execution (the later instructions may execute
before data stored by the earlier instructions have become globally
visible).

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
IF (CS.L ≠ 1 ) or (IA32\_EFER.LMA ≠ 1) or (IA32\_EFER.SCE ≠ 1)
(* Not in 64\-Bit Mode or SYSCALL/SYSRET not enabled in IA32\_EFER *)
    THEN #UD; FI;
IF (CPL ≠ 0) THEN #GP(0); FI;
IF (operand size is 64\-bit)
    THEN (* Return to 64\-Bit Mode *)
        IF (RCX is not canonical) THEN #GP(0);
        RIP ← RCX;
    ELSE (* Return to Compatibility Mode *)
        RIP ← ECX;
FI;
RFLAGS ← (R11 \& 3C7FD7H) | 2;
            (* Clear RF, VM, reserved bits; set bit 1 *)
IF (operand size is 64\-bit)
    THEN CS.Selector ← IA32\_STAR[63:48]+16;
    ELSE CS.Selector ← IA32\_STAR[63:48];
FI;
CS.Selector ← CS.Selector OR 3;
            (* RPL forced to 3 *)
(* Set rest of CS to a fixed value *)
CS.Base ← 0;
            (* Flat segment *)
CS.Limit ← FFFFFH;
            (* With 4\-KByte granularity, implies a 4\-GByte limit *)
CS.Type ← 11;
            (* Execute/read code, accessed *)
CS.S ← 1;
CS.DPL ← 3;
CS.P ← 1;
IF (operand size is 64\-bit)
    THEN (* Return to 64\-Bit Mode *)
        CS.L ← 1;
            (* 64\-bit code segment *)
        CS.D ← 0;
            (* Required if CS.L = 1 *)
    ELSE (* Return to Compatibility Mode *)
        CS.L ← 0;
            (* Compatibility mode *)
        CS.D ← 1;
            (* 32\-bit code segment *)
FI;
CS.G ← 1;
            (* 4\-KByte granularity *)
CPL ← 3;
SS.Selector ← (IA32\_STAR[63:48]+8) OR 3;
            (* RPL forced to 3 *)
(* Set rest of SS to a fixed value *)
SS.Base ← 0;
            (* Flat segment *)
SS.Limit ← FFFFFH;
            (* With 4\-KByte granularity, implies a 4\-GByte limit *)
SS.Type ← 3;
            (* Read/write data, accessed *)
SS.S ← 1;
SS.DPL ← 3;
SS.P ← 1;
SS.B ← 1;
            (* 32\-bit stack segment*)
SS.G ← 1;
            (* 4\-KByte granularity *)

.fi
.RE

.SH FLAGS AFFECTED
.PP
All.

.SH PROTECTED MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#UD	T{
The SYSRET instruction is not recognized in protected mode.
T}
.TE

.SH REAL\-ADDRESS MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#UD	T{
The SYSRET instruction is not recognized in real\-address mode.
T}
.TE

.SH VIRTUAL\-8086 MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#UD	T{
The SYSRET instruction is not recognized in virtual\-8086 mode.
T}
.TE

.SH COMPATIBILITY MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#UD	T{
The SYSRET instruction is not recognized in compatibility mode.
T}
.TE

.SH 64\-BIT MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#UD	If IA32
\_
EFER.SCE = 0.
	If the LOCK prefix is used.
#GP(0)	If CPL ≠ 0.
	T{
If the return is to 64\-bit mode and RCX contains a non\-canonical address.
T}
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
