.nh
.TH "X86-VRCP14PS" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
VRCP14PS - COMPUTE APPROXIMATE RECIPROCALS OF PACKED FLOAT32 VALUES
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode/Instruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64/32 bit Mode Support\fR	\fB\fCCPUID Feature Flag\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
T{
EVEX.128.66.0F38.W0 4C /r VRCP14PS xmm1 {k1}{z}, xmm2/m128/m32bcst
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512F	T{
Computes the approximate reciprocals of the packed single\-precision floating\-point values in xmm2/m128/m32bcst and stores the results in xmm1. Under writemask.
T}
T{
EVEX.256.66.0F38.W0 4C /r VRCP14PS ymm1 {k1}{z}, ymm2/m256/m32bcst
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512F	T{
Computes the approximate reciprocals of the packed single\-precision floating\-point values in ymm2/m256/m32bcst and stores the results in ymm1. Under writemask.
T}
T{
EVEX.512.66.0F38.W0 4C /r VRCP14PS zmm1 {k1}{z}, zmm2/m512/m32bcst
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512F	T{
Computes the approximate reciprocals of the packed single\-precision floating\-point values in zmm2/m512/m32bcst and stores the results in zmm1. Under writemask.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
Op/En	Tuple Type	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
A	Full	ModRM:reg (w)	ModRM:r/m (r)	NA	NA
.TE

.SS Description
.PP
This instruction performs a SIMD computation of the approximate
reciprocals of the packed single\-precision floating\-point values in the
source operand (the second operand) and stores the packed
single\-precision floating\-point results in the destination operand (the
first operand). The maximum relative error for this approximation is
less than 2\-14.

.PP
The source operand can be a ZMM register, a 512\-bit memory location or a
512\-bit vector broadcasted from a 32\-bit memory location. The
destination operand is a ZMM register conditionally updated according to
the writemask.

.PP
The VRCP14PS instruction is not affected by the rounding control bits in
the MXCSR register. When a source value is a 0.0, an ∞ with the sign of
the source value is returned. A denormal source value will be treated as
zero only in case of DAZ bit set in MXCSR. Otherwise it is treated
correctly (i.e. not as a 0.0). Underflow results are flushed to zero
only in case of FTZ bit set in MXCSR. Otherwise it will be treated
correctly (i.e. correct underflow result is written) with the sign of
the operand. When a source value is a SNaN or QNaN, the SNaN is
converted to a QNaN or the source QNaN is returned.

.PP
EVEX.vvvv is reserved and must be 1111b otherwise instructions will
#UD.

.PP
MXCSR exception flags are not affected by this instruction and
floating\-point exceptions are not reported.

.TS
allbox;
l l l 
l l l .
\fB\fCInput value\fR	\fB\fCResult value\fR	\fB\fCComments\fR
0\\ ≤\\ X\\ ≤\\ 2\-128	INF	Very small denormal
\-2\-128 ≤ X ≤ \-0	\-INF	Very small denormal
X \&gt; 2126	Underflow	T{
Up to 18 bits of fractions are returned
T}
*
X \&lt; \-2126	\-Underflow	T{
Up to 18 bits of fractions are returned
T}
*
X\\ =\\ 2\-n	2n	X = \-2\-n	\-2n	.TE

.PP
Table 5\-23. VRCP14PS/VRCP14SS Special Cases

.PP
* in this case the mantissa is shifted right by one or two bits

.PP
A numerically exact implementation of VRCP14xx can be found at:

.SS https://software.intel.com/en\-us/articles/reference\-implementations\-for\-IA\-approximation\-instructions\-vrcp14\-
.SS vrsqrt14\-vrcp28\-vrsqrt28\-vexp2.
.SS Operation
.SS VRCP14PS (EVEX encoded versions)
.PP
.RS

.nf
(KL, VL) = (4, 128), (8, 256), (16, 512)
FOR j←0 TO KL\-1
    i←j * 32
    IF k1[j] OR *no writemask* THEN
            IF (EVEX.b = 1) AND (SRC *is memory*)
                THEN DEST[i+31:i]←APPROXIMATE(1.0/SRC[31:0]);
                ELSE DEST[i+31:i]←APPROXIMATE(1.0/SRC[i+31:i]);
            FI;
    ELSE
        IF *merging\-masking* ; merging\-masking
            THEN *DEST[i+31:i] remains unchanged*
            ELSE ; zeroing\-masking
                DEST[i+31:i] ← 0
        FI;
    FI;
ENDFOR;
DEST[MAXVL\-1:VL] ← 0

.fi
.RE

.SS Intel C/C++ Compiler Intrinsic Equivalent
.PP
.RS

.nf
VRCP14PS \_\_m512 \_mm512\_rcp14\_ps( \_\_m512 a);

VRCP14PS \_\_m512 \_mm512\_mask\_rcp14\_ps(\_\_m512 s, \_\_mmask16 k, \_\_m512 a);

VRCP14PS \_\_m512 \_mm512\_maskz\_rcp14\_ps( \_\_mmask16 k, \_\_m512 a);

VRCP14PS \_\_m256 \_mm256\_rcp14\_ps( \_\_m256 a);

VRCP14PS \_\_m256 \_mm512\_mask\_rcp14\_ps(\_\_m256 s, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m256 a);

VRCP14PS \_\_m256 \_mm512\_maskz\_rcp14\_ps( \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m256 a);

VRCP14PS \_\_m128 \_mm\_rcp14\_ps( \_\_m128 a);

VRCP14PS \_\_m128 \_mm\_mask\_rcp14\_ps(\_\_m128 s, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m128 a);

VRCP14PS \_\_m128 \_mm\_maskz\_rcp14\_ps( \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m128 a);

.fi
.RE

.SS SIMD Floating\-Point Exceptions
.PP
None

.SS Other Exceptions
.PP
See Exceptions Type E4.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
