.nh
.TH "X86-DPPS" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
DPPS - DOT PRODUCT OF PACKED SINGLE PRECISION FLOATING-POINT VALUES
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode/Instruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64/32\-bit Mode\fR	\fB\fCCPUID Feature Flag\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
T{
66 0F 3A 40 /r ib DPPS xmm1, xmm2/m128, imm8
T}
	RMI	V/V	SSE4\_1	T{
Selectively multiply packed SP floating\-point values from xmm1.
T}
T{
VEX.128.66.0F3A.WIG 40 /r ib VDPPS xmm1,xmm2, xmm3/m128, imm8
T}
	RVMI	V/V	AVX	T{
Multiply packed SP floating point values from xmm1 with packed SP floating point values from xmm2/mem selectively add and store to xmm1.
T}
T{
VEX.256.66.0F3A.WIG 40 /r ib VDPPS ymm1, ymm2, ymm3/m256, imm8
T}
	RVMI	V/V	AVX	T{
Multiply packed single\-precision floating\-point values from ymm2 with packed SP floating point values from ymm3/mem, selectively add pairs of elements and store to ymm1.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
Op/En	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
RMI	ModRM:reg (r, w)	ModRM:r/m (r)	imm8	NA
RVMI	ModRM:reg (w)	VEX.vvvv (r)	ModRM:r/m (r)	imm8
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Conditionally multiplies the packed single precision floating\-point
values in the destination operand (first operand) with the packed
single\-precision floats in the source (second operand) depending on a
mask extracted from the high 4 bits of the immediate byte (third
operand). If a condition mask bit in Imm8[7:4] is zero, the
corresponding multiplication is replaced by a value of 0.0 in the manner
described by Section 12.8.4 of Intel® 64 and IA\-32 Architectures
Software Developer’s Manual, Volume 1.

.PP
The four resulting single\-precision values are summed into an
intermediate result. The intermediate result is conditionally
broadcasted to the destination using a broadcast mask specified by bits
[3:0] of the immediate byte.

.PP
If a broadcast mask bit is “1”, the intermediate result is copied to the
corresponding dword element in the destination operand. If a broadcast
mask bit is zero, the corresponding element in the destination is set to
zero.

.PP
DPPS follows the NaN forwarding rules stated in the Software Developer’s
Manual, vol. 1, table 4\-7\&. These rules
do not cover horizontal prioritization of NaNs. Horizontal propagation
of NaNs to the destination and the positioning of those NaNs in the
destination is implementation dependent. NaNs on the input sources or
computationally generated NaNs will have at least one NaN propagated to
the destination.

.PP
128\-bit Legacy SSE version: The second source can be an XMM register or
an 128\-bit memory location. The destination is not distinct from the
first source XMM register and the upper bits (MAXVL\-1:128) of the
corresponding YMM register destination are unmodified.

.PP
VEX.128 encoded version: the first source operand is an XMM register or
128\-bit memory location. The destination operand is an XMM register. The
upper bits (MAXVL\-1:128) of the corresponding YMM register destination
are zeroed.

.PP
VEX.256 encoded version: The first source operand is a YMM register. The
second source operand can be a YMM register or a 256\-bit memory
location. The destination operand is a YMM register.

.SH OPERATION
.SS DP\_primitive (SRC1, SRC2)
.PP
.RS

.nf
IF (imm8[4] = 1)
    THEN Temp1[31:0]←DEST[31:0] * SRC[31:0]; // update SIMD exception flags
    ELSE Temp1[31:0]←+0.0; FI;
IF (imm8[5] = 1)
    THEN Temp1[63:32]←DEST[63:32] * SRC[63:32]; // update SIMD exception flags
    ELSE Temp1[63:32]←+0.0; FI;
IF (imm8[6] = 1)
    THEN Temp1[95:64]←DEST[95:64] * SRC[95:64]; // update SIMD exception flags
    ELSE Temp1[95:64]←+0.0; FI;
IF (imm8[7] = 1)
    THEN Temp1[127:96]←DEST[127:96] * SRC[127:96]; // update SIMD exception flags
    ELSE Temp1[127:96]←+0.0; FI;
Temp2[31:0]←Temp1[31:0] + Temp1[63:32]; // update SIMD exception flags
/* if unmasked exception reported, execute exception handler*/
Temp3[31:0]←Temp1[95:64] + Temp1[127:96]; // update SIMD exception flags
/* if unmasked exception reported, execute exception handler*/
Temp4[31:0]←Temp2[31:0] + Temp3[31:0]; // update SIMD exception flags
/* if unmasked exception reported, execute exception handler*/
IF (imm8[0] = 1)
    THEN DEST[31:0]←Temp4[31:0];
    ELSE DEST[31:0]←+0.0; FI;
IF (imm8[1] = 1)
    THEN DEST[63:32]←Temp4[31:0];
    ELSE DEST[63:32]←+0.0; FI;
IF (imm8[2] = 1)
    THEN DEST[95:64]←Temp4[31:0];
    ELSE DEST[95:64]←+0.0; FI;
IF (imm8[3] = 1)
    THEN DEST[127:96]←Temp4[31:0];
    ELSE DEST[127:96]←+0.0; FI;

.fi
.RE

.SS DPPS (128\-bit Legacy SSE version)
.PP
.RS

.nf
DEST[127:0]←DP\_Primitive(SRC1[127:0], SRC2[127:0]);
DEST[MAXVL\-1:128] (Unmodified)

.fi
.RE

.SS VDPPS (VEX.128 encoded version)
.PP
.RS

.nf
DEST[127:0]←DP\_Primitive(SRC1[127:0], SRC2[127:0]);
DEST[MAXVL\-1:128] ← 0

.fi
.RE

.SS VDPPS (VEX.256 encoded version)
.PP
.RS

.nf
DEST[127:0]←DP\_Primitive(SRC1[127:0], SRC2[127:0]);
DEST[255:128]←DP\_Primitive(SRC1[255:128], SRC2[255:128]);

.fi
.RE

.SH FLAGS AFFECTED
.PP
None

.SH INTEL C/C++ COMPILER INTRINSIC EQUIVALENT
.PP
.RS

.nf
(V)DPPS: \_\_m128 \_mm\_dp\_ps ( \_\_m128 a, \_\_m128 b, const int mask);

VDPPS: \_\_m256 \_mm256\_dp\_ps ( \_\_m256 a, \_\_m256 b, const int mask);

.fi
.RE

.SH SIMD FLOATING\-POINT EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Overflow, Underflow, Invalid, Precision, Denormal

.PP
Exceptions are determined separately for each add and multiply
operation, in the order of their execution. Unmasked exceptions will
leave the destination operands unchanged.

.SH OTHER EXCEPTIONS
.PP
See Exceptions Type 2.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
