.nh
.TH "X86-VRANGEPD" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
VRANGEPD - RANGE RESTRICTION CALCULATION FOR PACKED PAIRS OF FLOAT64 VALUES
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode/Instruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64/32 bit Mode Support\fR	\fB\fCCPUID Feature Flag\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
T{
EVEX.128.66.0F3A.W1 50 /r ib VRANGEPD xmm1 {k1}{z}, xmm2, xmm3/m128/m64bcst, imm8
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512DQ	T{
Calculate two RANGE operation output value from 2 pairs of double\-precision floating\-point values in xmm2 and xmm3/m128/m32bcst, store the results to xmm1 under the writemask k1. Imm8 specifies the comparison and sign of the range operation.
T}
T{
EVEX.256.66.0F3A.W1 50 /r ib VRANGEPD ymm1 {k1}{z}, ymm2, ymm3/m256/m64bcst, imm8
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512DQ	T{
Calculate four RANGE operation output value from 4pairs of double\-precision floating\-point values in ymm2 and ymm3/m256/m32bcst, store the results to ymm1 under the writemask k1. Imm8 specifies the comparison and sign of the range operation.
T}
T{
EVEX.512.66.0F3A.W1 50 /r ib VRANGEPD zmm1 {k1}{z}, zmm2, zmm3/m512/m64bcst{sae}, imm8
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512DQ	T{
Calculate eight RANGE operation output value from 8 pairs of double\-precision floating\-point values in zmm2 and zmm3/m512/m32bcst, store the results to zmm1 under the writemask k1. Imm8 specifies the comparison and sign of the range operation.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
Op/En	Tuple Type	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
A	Full	ModRM:reg (w)	EVEX.vvvv (r)	ModRM:r/m (r)	Imm8
.TE

.SS Description
.PP
This instruction calculates 2/4/8 range operation outputs from two sets
of packed input double\-precision FP values in the first source operand
(the second operand) and the second source operand (the third operand).
The range outputs are written to the destination operand (the first
operand) under the writemask k1.

.PP
Bits7:4 of imm8 byte must be zero. The range operation output is
performed in two parts, each configured by a two\-bit control field
within imm8[3:0]:

.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Imm8[1:0] specifies the initial comparison operation to be one of
max, min, max absolute value or min absolute value of the input
value pair. Each comparison of two input values produces an
intermediate result that combines with the sign selection control
(Imm8[3:2]) to determine the final range operation output.
.IP \(bu 2
Imm8[3:2] specifies the sign of the range operation output to be
one of the following: from the first input value, from the
comparison result, set or clear.

.RE

.PP
The encodings of Imm8[1:0] and Imm8[3:2] are shown in Figure 5\-27.

.PP
0imm8Must Be ZeroSign Control (SC)Compare Operation SelectImm8[1:0] =
00b : Select Min valueImm8[3:2] = 00b : Select sign(SRC1)Imm8[1:0] =
01b : Select Max valueImm8[3:2] = 01b : Select
sign(Compare\_Result)Imm8[1:0] = 10b : Select Min\-Abs valueImm8[3:2]
= 10b : Set sign to 0Imm8[1:0] = 11b : Select Max\-Abs valueImm8[3:2]
= 11b : Set sign to 1

.PP
Figure 5\-27. Imm8 Controls for VRANGEPD/SD/PS/SS

.PP
When one or more of the input value is a NAN, the comparison operation
may signal invalid exception (IE). Details with one of more input value
is NAN is listed in Table 5\-19.

.PP
When both input values are zeros of opposite signs, the comparison
operation of MIN/MAX in the range compare operation is slightly
different from the conceptually similar FP MIN/MAX operation that are
found in the instructions VMAXPD/VMINPD. The details of
MIN/MAX/MIN\_ABS/MAX\_ABS operation for VRANGEPD/PS/SD/SS for
magni\-tude\-0, opposite\-signed input cases are listed in Table 5\-20.

.PP
Additionally, non\-zero, equal\-magnitude with opposite\-sign input values
perform MIN\_ABS or MAX\_ABS comparison operation with result listed in
Table 5\-21.

.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCSrc1\fR	\fB\fCSrc2\fR	\fB\fCResult\fR	\fB\fCIE Signaling Due to Comparison\fR	\fB\fCImm8[3:2] Effect to Range Output\fR
sNaN1	sNaN2	Quiet(sNaN1)	Yes	Ignored
sNaN1	qNaN2	Quiet(sNaN1)	Yes	Ignored
sNaN1	Norm2	Quiet(sNaN1)	Yes	Ignored
qNaN1	sNaN2	Quiet(sNaN2)	Yes	Ignored
qNaN1	qNaN2	qNaN1	No	Applicable
qNaN1	Norm2	Norm2	No	Applicable
Norm1	sNaN2	Quiet(sNaN2)	Yes	Ignored
Norm1	qNaN2	Norm1	No	Applicable
.TE

.PP
Table 5\-19. Signaling of Comparison Operation of One or More NaN Input
Values and Effect of Imm8[3:2]

.PP
MIN and MIN\_ABS

.PP
MAX and MAX\_ABS

.PP
Src1

.PP
Src2

.PP
Result

.PP
Src1

.PP
Src2

.PP
Result

.PP
+0

.PP
\-0

.PP
\-0

.PP
+0

.PP
\-0

.PP
+0

.PP
\-0

.PP
+0

.PP
\-0

.PP
\-0

.PP
+0

.PP
+0

.PP
Table 5\-20. Comparison Result for Opposite\-Signed Zero Cases for MIN,
MIN\_ABS and MAX, MAX\_ABS

.PP
MIN\_ABS (|a| = |b|, a\&gt;0, b\&lt;0)

.PP
MAX\_ABS (|a| = |b|, a\&gt;0, b\&lt;0)

.PP
Src1

.PP
Src2

.PP
Result

.PP
Src1

.PP
Src2

.PP
Result

.PP
a

.PP
b

.PP
b

.PP
a

.PP
b

.PP
a

.PP
b

.PP
a

.PP
b

.PP
b

.PP
a

.PP
a

.PP
Table 5\-21. Comparison Result of Equal\-Magnitude Input Cases for
MIN\_ABS and MAX\_ABS, (|a| = |b|, a\&gt;0, b\&lt;0)

.SS Operation
.PP
.RS

.nf
RangeDP(SRC1[63:0], SRC2[63:0], CmpOpCtl[1:0], SignSelCtl[1:0])
{
    // Check if SNAN and report IE, see also Table 5\-19
    IF (SRC1 = SNAN) THEN RETURN (QNAN(SRC1), set IE);
    IF (SRC2 = SNAN) THEN RETURN (QNAN(SRC2), set IE);
    Src1.exp ← SRC1[62:52];
    Src1.fraction ← SRC1[51:0];
    IF ((Src1.exp = 0 ) and (Src1.fraction != 0)) THEN// Src1 is a denormal number
        IF DAZ THEN Src1.fraction←0;
        ELSE IF (SRC2 <> QNAN) Set DE; FI;
    FI;
    Src2.exp ← SRC2[62:52];
    Src2.fraction ← SRC2[51:0];
    IF ((Src2.exp = 0) and (Src2.fraction !=0 )) THEN// Src2 is a denormal number
        IF DAZ THEN Src2.fraction←0;
        ELSE IF (SRC1 <> QNAN) Set DE; FI;
    FI;
    IF (SRC2 = QNAN) THEN{TMP[63:0]←SRC1[63:0]}
    ELSE IF(SRC1 = QNAN) THEN{TMP[63:0]←SRC2[63:0]}
    ELSE IF (Both SRC1, SRC2 are magnitude\-0 and opposite\-signed) TMP[63:0] ← from Table 5\-20
    ELSE IF (Both SRC1, SRC2 are magnitude\-equal and opposite\-signed and CmpOpCtl[1:0] > 01) TMP[63:0] ← from Table 5\-21
    ELSE
        Case(CmpOpCtl[1:0])
        00: TMP[63:0]←(SRC1[63:0] ≤ SRC2[63:0]) ? SRC1[63:0] : SRC2[63:0];
        01: TMP[63:0]←(SRC1[63:0] ≤ SRC2[63:0]) ? SRC2[63:0] : SRC1[63:0];
        10: TMP[63:0]←(ABS(SRC1[63:0]) ≤ ABS(SRC2[63:0])) ? SRC1[63:0] : SRC2[63:0];
        11: TMP[63:0]←(ABS(SRC1[63:0]) ≤ ABS(SRC2[63:0])) ? SRC2[63:0] : SRC1[63:0];
        ESAC;
    FI;
    Case(SignSelCtl[1:0])
    00: dest←(SRC1[63] << 63) OR (TMP[62:0]);// Preserve Src1 sign bit
    01: dest←TMP[63:0];// Preserve sign of compare result
    10: dest←(0 << 63) OR (TMP[62:0]);// Zero out sign bit
    11: dest←(1 << 63) OR (TMP[62:0]);// Set the sign bit
    ESAC;
    RETURN dest[63:0];
}
CmpOpCtl[1:0]= imm8[1:0];
SignSelCtl[1:0]=imm8[3:2];

.fi
.RE

.SS VRANGEPD (EVEX encoded versions)
.PP
.RS

.nf
(KL, VL) = (2, 128), (4, 256), (8, 512)
FOR j←0 TO KL\-1
    i←j * 64
    IF k1[j] OR *no writemask* THEN
                IF (EVEX.b == 1) AND (SRC2 *is memory*)
                    THEN DEST[i+63:i]←RangeDP (SRC1[i+63:i], SRC2[63:0], CmpOpCtl[1:0], SignSelCtl[1:0]);
                    ELSE DEST[i+63:i]←RangeDP (SRC1[i+63:i], SRC2[i+63:i], CmpOpCtl[1:0], SignSelCtl[1:0]);
                FI;
    ELSE
        IF *merging\-masking* ; merging\-masking
                THEN *DEST[i+63:i] remains unchanged*
                ELSE ; zeroing\-masking
                    DEST[i+63:i] = 0
        FI;
    FI;
ENDFOR;
DEST[MAXVL\-1:VL] ← 0
The following example describes a common usage of this instruction for checking that the input operand is
bounded between ±1023.
VRANGEPD zmm\_dst, zmm\_src, zmm\_1023, 02h;
Where:
            zmm\_dst is the destination operand.
            zmm\_src is the input operand to compare against ±1023 (this is SRC1).
            zmm\_1023 is the reference operand, contains the value of 1023 (and this is SRC2).
            IMM=02(imm8[1:0]='10) selects the Min Absolute value operation with selection of SRC1.sign.
In case |zmm\_src| < 1023 (i.e. SRC1 is smaller than 1023 in magnitude), then its value will be written into
zmm\_dst. Otherwise, the value stored in zmm\_dst will get the value of 1023 (received on zmm\_1023, which is
SRC2).
However, the sign control (imm8[3:2]='00) instructs to select the sign of SRC1 received from zmm\_src. So, even
in the case of |zmm\_src| ≥ 1023, the selected sign of SRC1 is kept.
Thus, if zmm\_src < \-1023, the result of VRANGEPD will be the minimal value of \-1023 while if zmm\_src > +1023,
the result of VRANGE will be the maximal value of +1023.

.fi
.RE

.SS Intel C/C++ Compiler Intrinsic Equivalent
.PP
.RS

.nf
VRANGEPD \_\_m512d \_mm512\_range\_pd ( \_\_m512d a, \_\_m512d b, int imm);

VRANGEPD \_\_m512d \_mm512\_range\_round\_pd ( \_\_m512d a, \_\_m512d b, int imm, int sae);

VRANGEPD \_\_m512d \_mm512\_mask\_range\_pd (\_\_m512 ds, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m512d a, \_\_m512d b, int imm);

VRANGEPD \_\_m512d \_mm512\_mask\_range\_round\_pd (\_\_m512d s, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m512d a, \_\_m512d b, int imm, int sae);

VRANGEPD \_\_m512d \_mm512\_maskz\_range\_pd ( \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m512d a, \_\_m512d b, int imm);

VRANGEPD \_\_m512d \_mm512\_maskz\_range\_round\_pd ( \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m512d a, \_\_m512d b, int imm, int sae);

VRANGEPD \_\_m256d \_mm256\_range\_pd ( \_\_m256d a, \_\_m256d b, int imm);

VRANGEPD \_\_m256d \_mm256\_mask\_range\_pd (\_\_m256d s, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m256d a, \_\_m256d b, int imm);

VRANGEPD \_\_m256d \_mm256\_maskz\_range\_pd ( \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m256d a, \_\_m256d b, int imm);

VRANGEPD \_\_m128d \_mm\_range\_pd ( \_\_m128 a, \_\_m128d b, int imm);

VRANGEPD \_\_m128d \_mm\_mask\_range\_pd (\_\_m128 s, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m128d a, \_\_m128d b, int imm);

VRANGEPD \_\_m128d \_mm\_maskz\_range\_pd ( \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m128d a, \_\_m128d b, int imm);

.fi
.RE

.SS SIMD Floating\-Point Exceptions
.PP
Invalid, Denormal

.SS Other Exceptions
.PP
See Exceptions Type E2.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
