.nh
.TH "X86-XSAVES" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
XSAVES - SAVE PROCESSOR EXTENDED STATES SUPERVISOR
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode / Instruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64/32 bit Mode Support\fR	\fB\fCCPUID Feature Flag\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
NP 0F C7 /5 XSAVES mem	M	V/V	XSS	T{
Save state components specified by EDX:EAX to mem with compaction, optimizing if possible.
T}
T{
NP REX.W + 0F C7 /5 XSAVES64 mem
T}
	M	V/N.E.	XSS	T{
Save state components specified by EDX:EAX to mem with compaction, optimizing if possible.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
Op/En	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
M	ModRM:r/m (w)	NA	NA	NA
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Performs a full or partial save of processor state components to the
XSAVE area located at the memory address specified by the destination
operand. The implicit EDX:EAX register pair specifies a 64\-bit
instruction mask. The specific state components saved correspond to the
bits set in the requested\-feature bitmap (RFBM), the logicalAND of
EDX:EAX and the logical\-OR of XCR0 with the IA32\_XSS MSR. XSAVES may be
executed only if CPL = 0.

.PP
The format of the XSAVE area is detailed in Section 13.4, “XSAVE Area,”
of Intel® 64 and IA\-32 Architectures Software Developer’s Manual, Volume
1.

.PP
Section 13.11, “Operation of XSAVES,” of Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual, Volume 1 provides a detailed
description of the operation of the XSAVES instruction. The following
items provide a highlevel outline:

.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Execution of XSAVES is similar to that of XSAVEC. XSAVES differs
from XSAVEC in that it can save state components corresponding to
bits set in the IA32\_XSS MSR and that it may use the modified
optimization.
.IP \(bu 2
XSAVES saves state component i has not been modified since the last
execution of XRSTOR or XRSTORS; and (2) this execution of XSAVES
correspond to that last execution of XRSTOR or XRSTORS as determined
by XRSTOR\_INFO (see the Operation section below).
.IP \(bu 2
XSAVES does not modify bytes 511:464 of the legacy region of the
XSAVE area (see Section 13.4.1, “Legacy Region of an XSAVE Area” of
Intel® 64 and IA\-32 Architectures Software Developer’s Manual,
Volume 1).
.IP \(bu 2
XSAVES writes the logical AND of RFBM and XINUSE to the XSTATE\_BV
field of the XSAVE header.2 (See Section 13.4.2, “XSAVE Header” of
Intel® 64 and IA\-32 Architectures Software Developer’s Manual,
Volume 1.) XSAVES sets bit 63 of the XCOMP\_BV field and sets bits
62:0 of that field to RFBM[62:0]\&. XSAVES does not write to any
parts of the XSAVE header other than the XSTATE\_BV and XCOMP\_BV
fields.
.IP \(bu 2
XSAVES always uses the compacted format of the extended region of
the XSAVE area (see Section 13.4.3, “Extended Region of an XSAVE
Area” of Volume 1).

.RE

.PP
.RS

.PP
1\&. There is an exception for state component 1 (SSE). MXCSR is part
of SSE state, but XINUSE[1] may be 0 even if MXCSR does not have its
initial value of 1F80H. In this case, the init optimization does not
apply and XSAVEC will save SSE state as long as RFBM[1] = 1 and the
modified optimization is not being applied.

.PP
2\&. There is an exception for state component 1 (SSE). MXCSR is part
of SSE state, but XINUSE[1] may be 0 even if MXCSR does not have its
initial value of 1F80H. In this case, XSAVES sets XSTATE\_BV[1] to 1
as long as RFBM[1] = 1.

.RE

.PP
Use of a destination operand not aligned to 64\-byte boundary (in either
64\-bit or 32\-bit modes) results in a general\-protection (#GP)
exception. In 64\-bit mode, the upper 32 bits of RDX and RAX are ignored.

.PP
See Section 13.6, “Processor Tracking of XSAVE\-Managed State,” of Intel®
64 and IA\-32 Architectures Software Developer’s Manual, Volume 1 for
discussion of the bitmap XMODIFIED and of the quantity XRSTOR\_INFO.

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
RFBM ← (XCR0 OR IA32\_XSS) AND EDX:EAX;
                                /* bitwise logical OR and AND */
IF in VMX non\-root operation
    THEN VMXNR ← 1;
    ELSE VMXNR ← 0;
FI;
LAXA ← linear address of XSAVE area;
COMPMASK ← RFBM OR 80000000\_00000000H;
TO\_BE\_SAVED ← RFBM AND XINUSE;
IF XRSTOR\_INFO = CPL,VMXNR,LAXA,COMPMASK
    THEN TO\_BE\_SAVED ← TO\_BE\_SAVED AND XMODIFIED;
FI;
If MXCSR ≠ 1F80H AND RFBM[1]
    TO\_BE\_SAVED[1] = 1;
FI;
IF TO\_BE\_SAVED[0] = 1
    THEN store x87 state into legacy region of XSAVE area;
FI;
IF TO\_BE\_SAVED[1] = 1
    THEN store SSE state into legacy region of XSAVE area; // this step saves the XMM registers, MXCSR, and MXCSR\_MASK
FI;
NEXT\_FEATURE\_OFFSET = 576;
                            // Legacy area and XSAVE header consume 576 bytes
FOR i ← 2 TO 62
    IF RFBM[i] = 1
        THEN
            IF TO\_BE\_SAVED[i]
                THEN
                    save XSAVE state component i at offset NEXT\_FEATURE\_OFFSET from base of XSAVE area;
                    IF i = 8 // state component 8 is for PT state
                        THEN IA32\_RTIT\_CTL.TraceEn[bit 0] ← 0;
                    FI;
            FI;
            NEXT\_FEATURE\_OFFSET = NEXT\_FEATURE\_OFFSET + n (n enumerated by CPUID(EAX=0DH,ECX=i):EAX);
    FI;
ENDFOR;
XSTATE\_BV field in XSAVE header ← TO\_BE\_SAVED;
XCOMP\_BV field in XSAVE header ← COMPMASK;

.fi
.RE

.SH FLAGS AFFECTED
.PP
None.

.SH INTEL C/C++ COMPILER INTRINSIC EQUIVALENT
.PP
.RS

.nf
XSAVES: void \_xsaves( void * , unsigned \_\_int64);

XSAVES64: void \_xsaves64( void * , unsigned \_\_int64);

.fi
.RE

.SH PROTECTED MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	If CPL 
\&gt;
 0.
	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
	T{
If a memory operand is not aligned on a 64\-byte boundary, regardless of segment.
T}
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#NM	If CR0.TS
[
bit 3
]
 = 1.
#UD	If CPUID.01H:ECX.XSAVE
[
bit 26
]
T{
 = 0 or CPUID.(EAX=0DH,ECX=1):EAX.XSS
T}
[
bit 3
]
 = 0.
	If CR4.OSXSAVE
[
bit 18
]
 = 0.
	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH REAL\-ADDRESS MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP	T{
If a memory operand is not aligned on a 64\-byte boundary, regardless of segment.
T}
	T{
If any part of the operand lies outside the effective address space from 0 to FFFFH.
T}
#NM	If CR0.TS
[
bit 3
]
 = 1.
#UD	If CPUID.01H:ECX.XSAVE
[
bit 26
]
T{
 = 0 or CPUID.(EAX=0DH,ECX=1):EAX.XSS
T}
[
bit 3
]
 = 0.
	If CR4.OSXSAVE
[
bit 18
]
 = 0.
	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH VIRTUAL\-8086 MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH COMPATIBILITY MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH 64\-BIT MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	If CPL 
\&gt;
 0.
	T{
If the memory address is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
	T{
If a memory operand is not aligned on a 64\-byte boundary, regardless of segment.
T}
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory address referencing the SS segment is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#NM	If CR0.TS
[
bit 3
]
 = 1.
#UD	If CPUID.01H:ECX.XSAVE
[
bit 26
]
T{
 = 0 or CPUID.(EAX=0DH,ECX=1):EAX.XSS
T}
[
bit 3
]
 = 0.
	If CR4.OSXSAVE
[
bit 18
]
 = 0.
	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
