.nh
.TH "X86-VGETMANTPD" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
VGETMANTPD - EXTRACT FLOAT64 VECTOR OF NORMALIZED MANTISSAS FROM FLOAT64 VECTOR
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode/Instruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64/32 bit Mode Support\fR	\fB\fCCPUID Feature Flag\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
T{
EVEX.128.66.0F3A.W1 26 /r ib VGETMANTPD xmm1 {k1}{z}, xmm2/m128/m64bcst, imm8
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512F	T{
Get Normalized Mantissa from float64 vector xmm2/m128/m64bcst and store the result in xmm1, using imm8 for sign control and mantissa interval normalization, under writemask.
T}
T{
EVEX.256.66.0F3A.W1 26 /r ib VGETMANTPD ymm1 {k1}{z}, ymm2/m256/m64bcst, imm8
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512F	T{
Get Normalized Mantissa from float64 vector ymm2/m256/m64bcst and store the result in ymm1, using imm8 for sign control and mantissa interval normalization, under writemask.
T}
T{
EVEX.512.66.0F3A.W1 26 /r ib VGETMANTPD zmm1 {k1}{z}, zmm2/m512/m64bcst{sae}, imm8
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512F	T{
Get Normalized Mantissa from float64 vector zmm2/m512/m64bcst and store the result in zmm1, using imm8 for sign control and mantissa interval normalization, under writemask.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
Op/En	Tuple Type	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
A	Full	ModRM:reg (w)	ModRM:r/m (r)	Imm8	NA
.TE

.SS Description
.PP
Convert double\-precision floating values in the source operand (the
second operand) to DP FP values with the mantissa normalization and sign
control specified by the imm8 byte, see Figure 5\-15. The converted
results are written to the destination operand (the first operand) using
writemask k1. The normalized mantissa is specified by interv
(imm8[1:0]) and the sign control (sc) is specified by bits 3:2 of the
immediate byte.

.PP
The destination operand is a ZMM/YMM/XMM register updated under the
writemask. The source operand can be a ZMM/YMM/XMM register, a
512/256/128\-bit memory location, or a 512/256/128\-bit vector broadcasted
from a 64\-bit memory location.

.TP
00b : Interval is [ 1, 2)Imm8[3:2] = 00b : sign(SRC)Imm8[1:0] = 01b
Interval is [1/2, 2)Imm8[3:2] = 01b : 0Imm8[1:0] = 10b : Interval
is [ 1/2, 1)Imm8[3] = 1b : qNan\_Indefinite if sign(SRC) != 0,
regardless of imm8[2]\&.Imm8[1:0] = 11b : Interval is [3/4, 3/2)

.PP
regardless of imm8[2]\&.Imm8[1:0] = 11b : Interval is [3/4, 3/2)

.PP
Figure 5\-15. Imm8 Controls for VGETMANTPD/SD/PS/SS

.PP
For each input DP FP value x, The conversion operation is:

.PP
k|x.significand|

.PP
where:

.PP
1 |x.significand| \&lt; 2

.PP
Unbiased exponent k depends on the interval range defined by interv and
whether the exponent of the source is even or odd. The sign of the final
result is determined by sc and the source sign.

.PP
If interv != 0 then k = \-1, otherwise K = 0. The encoded value of
imm8[1:0] and sign control are shown in

.PP
Figure 5\-15.

.PP
Each converted DP FP result is encoded according to the sign control,
the unbiased exponent k (adding bias) and a mantissa normalized to the
range specified by interv.

.PP
The GetMant() function follows Table 5\-16 when dealing with
floating\-point special numbers.

.PP
This instruction is writemasked, so only those elements with the
corresponding bit set in vector mask register k1 are computed and stored
into the destination. Elements in zmm1 with the corresponding bit clear
in k1 retain their previous values.

.PP
Note: EVEX.vvvv is reserved and must be 1111b; otherwise instructions
will #UD.

.TS
allbox;
l l l 
l l l .
\fB\fCInput\fR	\fB\fCResult\fR	\fB\fCExceptions / Comments\fR
NaN	QNaN(SRC)	T{
Ignore interv If (SRC = SNaN) then 
T}
#
IE
+∞	1.0	Ignore interv
+0	1.0	Ignore interv
\-0	IF (SC[0]) THEN +1.0 ELSE \-1.0	Ignore interv
\-∞	IF (SC[1]) THEN {QNaN\_Indefinite} ELSE { IF (SC[0]) THEN +1.0 ELSE \-1.0	Ignore interv If (SC
[
1
]
) then 
#
IE
negative	SC[1] ? QNaN\_Indefinite : Getmant(SRC)	If (SC
[
1
]
) then 
#
IE
.TE

.PP
Table 5\-16. GetMant() Special Float Values Behavior

.SS Operation
.PP
.RS

.nf
GetNormalizeMantissaDP(SRC[63:0], SignCtrl[1:0], Interv[1:0])
{
    // Extracting the SRC sign, exponent and mantissa fields
    Dst.sign←SignCtrl[0] ? 0 : Src[63]; // Get sign bit
    Dst.exp←SRC[62:52]; ; Get original exponent value
    Dst.fraction←SRC[51:0];; Get original fraction value
    ZeroOperand←(Dst.exp = 0) AND (Dst.fraction = 0);
    DenormOperand←(Dst.exp = 0h) AND (Dst.fraction != 0);
    InfiniteOperand←(Dst.exp = 07FFh) AND (Dst.fraction = 0);
    NaNOperand←(Dst.exp = 07FFh) AND (Dst.fraction != 0);
    // Check for NAN operand
    IF (NaNOperand)
    { IF (SRC = SNaN) {Set #IE;}
        Return QNAN(SRC);
    }
    // Check for Zero and Infinite operands
    IF ((ZeroOperand) OR (InfiniteOperand)
    { Dst.exp←03FFh;
                        // Override exponent with BIAS
        Return ((Dst.sign<<63) | (Dst.exp<<52) | (Dst.fraction));
    }
    // Check for negative operand (including \-0.0)
    IF ((Src[63] = 1) AND SignCtrl[1])
    { Set #IE;
        Return QNaN\_Indefinite;
    }
    // Checking for denormal operands
    IF (DenormOperand)
    { IF (MXCSR.DAZ=1) Dst.fraction←0;// Zero out fraction
        ELSE
        {
            // Jbit is the hidden integral bit. Zero in case of denormal operand.
            Src.Jbit←0;
                    // Zero Src Jbit
            Dst.exp←03FFh;
                    // Override exponent with BIAS
            WHILE (Src.Jbit = 0) {
                    // normalize mantissa
                Src.Jbit←Dst.fraction[51]; // Get the fraction MSB
                Dst.fraction←(Dst.fraction << 1);
                                // Start normalizing the mantissa
                Dst.exp\-\-; // Adjust the exponent
            }
            SET #DE; // Set DE bit
        }
    }
    // Checking for exponent response
    Unbiased.exp←Dst.exp – 03FFh;
                        // subtract the bias from exponent
    IsOddExp←Unbiased.exp[0];
                        // recognized unbiased ODD exponent
    SignalingBit ← Dst.fraction[51];
    CASE (interv[1:0])
        00: Dst.exp←03FFh;
                            // This is the bias
        01: Dst.exp←(IsOddExp) ? 03FEh : 03FFh;
                                // either bias\-1, or bias
        10: Dst.exp←03FEh;
                            // bias\-1
        11: Dst.exp←(SignalingBit) ? 03FEh : 03FFh;
                                // either bias\-1, or bias
    ESAC
    // At this point Dst.exp has the correct result. Form the final destination
    DEST[63:0]←(Dst.sign << 63) OR (Dst.exp << 52) OR (Dst.fraction);
    Return (DEST);
}

.fi
.RE

.SS VGETMANTPD (EVEX encoded versions)
.PP
.RS

.nf
(KL, VL) = (2, 128), (4, 256), (8, 512)
SignCtrl[1:0] ← IMM8[3:2];
Interv[1:0] ← IMM8[1:0];
FOR j←0 TO KL\-1
    i←j * 64
    IF k1[j] OR *no writemask*
        THEN
            IF (EVEX.b = 1) AND (SRC *is memory*)
                THEN
                    DEST[i+63:i]← GetNormalizedMantissaDP(SRC[63:0], SignCtrl, Interv)
                ELSE
                    DEST[i+63:i]← GetNormalizedMantissaDP(SRC[i+63:i], SignCtrl, Interv)
            FI;
        ELSE
            IF *merging\-masking* ; merging\-masking
                THEN *DEST[i+63:i] remains unchanged*
                ELSE
                        ; zeroing\-masking
                    DEST[i+63:i] ← 0
            FI
    FI;
ENDFOR
DEST[MAXVL\-1:VL] ← 0

.fi
.RE

.SS Intel C/C++ Compiler Intrinsic Equivalent
.PP
.RS

.nf
VGETMANTPD \_\_m512d \_mm512\_getmant\_pd( \_\_m512d a, enum intv, enum sgn);

VGETMANTPD \_\_m512d \_mm512\_mask\_getmant\_pd(\_\_m512d s, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m512d a, enum intv, enum sgn);

VGETMANTPD \_\_m512d \_mm512\_maskz\_getmant\_pd( \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m512d a, enum intv, enum sgn);

VGETMANTPD \_\_m512d \_mm512\_getmant\_round\_pd( \_\_m512d a, enum intv, enum sgn, int r);

VGETMANTPD \_\_m512d \_mm512\_mask\_getmant\_round\_pd(\_\_m512d s, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m512d a, enum intv, enum sgn, int r);

VGETMANTPD \_\_m512d \_mm512\_maskz\_getmant\_round\_pd( \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m512d a, enum intv, enum sgn, int r);

VGETMANTPD \_\_m256d \_mm256\_getmant\_pd( \_\_m256d a, enum intv, enum sgn);

VGETMANTPD \_\_m256d \_mm256\_mask\_getmant\_pd(\_\_m256d s, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m256d a, enum intv, enum sgn);

VGETMANTPD \_\_m256d \_mm256\_maskz\_getmant\_pd( \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m256d a, enum intv, enum sgn);

VGETMANTPD \_\_m128d \_mm\_getmant\_pd( \_\_m128d a, enum intv, enum sgn);

VGETMANTPD \_\_m128d \_mm\_mask\_getmant\_pd(\_\_m128d s, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m128d a, enum intv, enum sgn);

VGETMANTPD \_\_m128d \_mm\_maskz\_getmant\_pd( \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m128d a, enum intv, enum sgn);

.fi
.RE

.SS SIMD Floating\-Point Exceptions
.PP
Denormal, Invalid

.SS Other Exceptions
.PP
See Exceptions Type E2.

.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#UD	If EVEX.vvvv != 1111B.
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
