.nh
.TH "X86-LGDT-LIDT" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
LGDT-LIDT - LOAD GLOBAL-INTERRUPT DESCRIPTOR TABLE REGISTER
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode\fR	\fB\fCInstruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64\-Bit Mode\fR	\fB\fCCompat/Leg Mode\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
0F 01 /2	LGDT m16\&32	M	N.E.	Valid	Load m into GDTR.
0F 01 /3	LIDT m16\&32	M	N.E.	Valid	Load m into IDTR.
0F 01 /2	LGDT m16\&64	M	Valid	N.E.	Load m into GDTR.
0F 01 /3	LIDT m16\&64	M	Valid	N.E.	Load m into IDTR.
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
Op/En	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
M	ModRM:r/m (r)	NA	NA	NA
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Loads the values in the source operand into the global descriptor table
register (GDTR) or the interrupt descriptor table register (IDTR). The
source operand specifies a 6\-byte memory location that contains the base
address (a linear address) and the limit (size of table in bytes) of the
global descriptor table (GDT) or the interrupt descriptor table (IDT).
If operand\-size attribute is 32 bits, a 16\-bit limit (lower 2 bytes of
the 6\-byte data operand) and a 32\-bit base address (upper 4 bytes of the
data operand) are loaded into the register. If the operand\-size
attribute is 16 bits, a 16\-bit limit (lower 2 bytes) and a 24\-bit base
address (third, fourth, and fifth byte) are loaded. Here, the high\-order
byte of the operand is not used and the high\-order byte of the base
address in the GDTR or IDTR is filled with zeros.

.PP
The LGDT and LIDT instructions are used only in operating\-system
software; they are not used in application programs. They are the only
instructions that directly load a linear address (that is, not a
segment\-relative address) and a limit in protected mode. They are
commonly executed in real\-address mode to allow processor initialization
prior to switching to protected mode.

.PP
In 64\-bit mode, the instruction’s operand size is fixed at 8+2 bytes (an
8\-byte base and a 2\-byte limit). See the summary chart at the beginning
of this section for encoding data and limits.

.PP
See “SGDT—Store Global Descriptor Table Register” in Chapter 4, Intel®
64 and IA\-32 Architectures Software Developer’s Manual, Volume 2B, for
information on storing the contents of the GDTR and IDTR.

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
IF Instruction is LIDT
    THEN
        IF OperandSize = 16
            THEN
                IDTR(Limit) ← SRC[0:15];
                IDTR(Base) ← SRC[16:47] AND 00FFFFFFH;
            ELSE IF 32\-bit Operand Size
                THEN
                    IDTR(Limit) ← SRC[0:15];
                    IDTR(Base) ← SRC[16:47];
                FI;
            ELSE IF 64\-bit Operand Size (* In 64\-Bit Mode *)
                THEN
                    IDTR(Limit) ← SRC[0:15];
                    IDTR(Base) ← SRC[16:79];
                FI;
        FI;
    ELSE (* Instruction is LGDT *)
        IF OperandSize = 16
            THEN
                GDTR(Limit) ← SRC[0:15];
                GDTR(Base) ← SRC[16:47] AND 00FFFFFFH;
            ELSE IF 32\-bit Operand Size
                THEN
                    GDTR(Limit) ← SRC[0:15];
                    GDTR(Base) ← SRC[16:47];
                FI;
            ELSE IF 64\-bit Operand Size (* In 64\-Bit Mode *)
                THEN
                    GDTR(Limit) ← SRC[0:15];
                    GDTR(Base) ← SRC[16:79];
                FI;
        FI;
FI;

.fi
.RE

.SH FLAGS AFFECTED
.PP
None

.SH PROTECTED MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
#GP(0)	T{
If the current privilege level is not 0.
T}
	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
	T{
If the DS, ES, FS, or GS register is used to access memory and it contains a NULL segment selector.
T}
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
.TE

.SH REAL\-ADDRESS MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
#GP	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
#SS	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
.TE

.SH VIRTUAL\-8086 MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
#GP	T{
If the current privilege level is not 0.
T}
.TE

.SH COMPATIBILITY MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH 64\-BIT MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory address referencing the SS segment is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#GP(0)	T{
If the current privilege level is not 0.
T}
	T{
If the memory address is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
