.nh
.TH "X86-ENCLS" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
ENCLS - EXECUTE AN ENCLAVE SYSTEM FUNCTION OF SPECIFIED LEAF NUMBER
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode/Instruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64/32 bit Mode Support\fR	\fB\fCCPUID Feature Flag\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
NP 0F 01 CF ENCLS	NP	V/V	NA	T{
This instruction is used to execute privileged Intel SGX leaf functions that are used for managing and debugging the enclaves.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
Op/En	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Implicit Register Operands
NP	NA	NA	NA	See Section 40.3
.TE

.SS Description
.PP
The ENCLS instruction invokes the specified privileged Intel SGX leaf
function for managing and debugging enclaves. Software specifies the
leaf function by setting the appropriate value in the register EAX as
input. The registers RBX, RCX, and RDX have leaf\-specific purpose, and
may act as input, as output, or may be unused. In 64\-bit mode, the
instruction ignores upper 32 bits of the RAX register.

.PP
The ENCLS instruction produces an invalid\-opcode exception (#UD) if
CR0.PE = 0 or RFLAGS.VM = 1, or if it is executed in system\-management
mode (SMM). Additionally, any attempt to execute the instruction when
CPL \&gt; 0 results in #UD. The instruction produces a
general\-protection exception (#GP) if CR0.PG = 0 or if an attempt is
made to invoke an undefined leaf function.

.PP
In VMX non\-root operation, execution of ENCLS may cause a VM exit if the
“enable ENCLS exiting” VM\-execution control is 1. In this case,
execution of individual leaf functions of ENCLS is governed by the
ENCLS\-exiting bitmap field in the VMCS. Each bit in that field
corresponds to the index of an ENCLS leaf function (as provided in EAX).

.PP
Software in VMX root operation can thus intercept the invocation of
various ENCLS leaf functions in VMX non\-root operation by setting the
“enable ENCLS exiting” VM\-execution control and setting the
corresponding bits in the ENCLS\-exiting bitmap.

.PP
Addresses and operands are 32 bits outside 64\-bit mode (IA32\_EFER.LMA =
0 || CS.L = 0) and are 64 bits in 64\-bit mode (IA32\_EFER.LMA = 1 ||
CS.L = 1). CS.D value has no impact on address calculation. The DS
segment is used to create linear addresses.

.PP
Segment override prefixes and address\-size override prefixes are
ignored, and is the REX prefix in 64\-bit mode.

.SS Operation
.PP
.RS

.nf
IF TSX\_ACTIVE
    THEN GOTO TSX\_ABORT\_PROCESSING; FI;
IF CR0.PE = 0 or RFLAGS.VM = 1 or in SMM or CPUID.SGX\_LEAF.0:EAX.SE1 = 0
    THEN #UD; FI;
IF (CPL > 0)
    THEN #UD; FI;
IF in VMX non\-root operation and the “enable ENCLS exiting“ VM\-execution control is 1
    THEN
        IF EAX < 63 and ENCLS\_exiting\_bitmap[EAX] = 1 or EAX> 62 and ENCLS\_exiting\_bitmap[63] = 1
            THEN VM exit;
        FI;
FI;
IF IA32\_FEATURE\_CONTROL.LOCK = 0 or IA32\_FEATURE\_CONTROL.SGX\_ENABLE = 0
    THEN #GP(0); FI;
IF (EAX is an invalid leaf number)
    THEN #GP(0); FI;
IF CR0.PG = 0
    THEN #GP(0); FI;
(* DS must not be an expanded down segment *)
IF not in 64\-bit mode and DS.Type is expand\-down data
    THEN #GP(0); FI;
Jump to leaf specific flow

.fi
.RE

.SS Flags Affected
.PP
See individual leaf functions

.SS Protected Mode Exceptions
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#UD	T{
If any of the LOCK/OSIZE/REP/VEX prefix is used.
T}
	T{
If current privilege level is not 0.
T}
	T{
If CPUID.(EAX=12H,ECX=0):EAX.SGX1 
T}
[
bit 0
]
 = 0.
	T{
If logical processor is in SMM.
T}
#GP(0)	If IA32
\_
FEATURE
\_
CONTROL.LOCK = 0.
	If IA32
\_
FEATURE
\_
CONTROL.SGX
\_
ENABLE = 0.
	T{
If input value in EAX encodes an unsupported leaf.
T}
	If data segment expand down.
	If CR0.PG=0.
.TE

.SS Real\-Address Mode Exceptions
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#UD	T{
ENCLS is not recognized in real mode.
T}
.TE

.SS Virtual\-8086 Mode Exceptions
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#UD	T{
ENCLS is not recognized in virtual\-8086 mode.
T}
.TE

.SS Compatibility Mode Exceptions
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SS 64\-Bit Mode Exceptions
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#UD	T{
If any of the LOCK/OSIZE/REP/VEX prefix is used.
T}
	T{
If current privilege level is not 0.
T}
	T{
If CPUID.(EAX=12H,ECX=0):EAX.SGX1 
T}
[
bit 0
]
 = 0.
	T{
If logical processor is in SMM.
T}
#GP(0)	If IA32
\_
FEATURE
\_
CONTROL.LOCK = 0.
	If IA32
\_
FEATURE
\_
CONTROL.SGX
\_
ENABLE = 0.
	T{
If input value in EAX encodes an unsupported leaf.
T}
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
