.nh
.TH "X86-VPBLENDMD-VPBLENDMQ" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
VPBLENDMD-VPBLENDMQ - BLEND INT32-INT64 VECTORS USING AN OPMASK CONTROL
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode/Instruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64/32 bit Mode Support\fR	\fB\fCCPUID Feature Flag\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
T{
EVEX.128.66.0F38.W0 64 /r VPBLENDMD xmm1 {k1}{z}, xmm2, xmm3/m128/m32bcst
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512F	T{
Blend doubleword integer vector xmm2 and doubleword vector xmm3/m128/m32bcst and store the result in xmm1, under control mask.
T}
T{
EVEX.256.66.0F38.W0 64 /r VPBLENDMD ymm1 {k1}{z}, ymm2, ymm3/m256/m32bcst
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512F	T{
Blend doubleword integer vector ymm2 and doubleword vector ymm3/m256/m32bcst and store the result in ymm1, under control mask.
T}
T{
EVEX.512.66.0F38.W0 64 /r VPBLENDMD zmm1 {k1}{z}, zmm2, zmm3/m512/m32bcst
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512F	T{
Blend doubleword integer vector zmm2 and doubleword vector zmm3/m512/m32bcst and store the result in zmm1, under control mask.
T}
T{
EVEX.128.66.0F38.W1 64 /r VPBLENDMQ xmm1 {k1}{z}, xmm2, xmm3/m128/m64bcst
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512F	T{
Blend quadword integer vector xmm2 and quadword vector xmm3/m128/m64bcst and store the result in xmm1, under control mask.
T}
T{
EVEX.256.66.0F38.W1 64 /r VPBLENDMQ ymm1 {k1}{z}, ymm2, ymm3/m256/m64bcst
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512F	T{
Blend quadword integer vector ymm2 and quadword vector ymm3/m256/m64bcst and store the result in ymm1, under control mask.
T}
T{
EVEX.512.66.0F38.W1 64 /r VPBLENDMQ zmm1 {k1}{z}, zmm2, zmm3/m512/m64bcst
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512F	T{
Blend quadword integer vector zmm2 and quadword vector zmm3/m512/m64bcst and store the result in zmm1, under control mask.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
Op/En	Tuple Type	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
A	Full	ModRM:reg (w)	EVEX.vvvv	ModRM:r/m (r)	NA
.TE

.SS Description
.PP
Performs an element\-by\-element blending of dword/qword elements between
the first source operand (the second operand) and the elements of the
second source operand (the third operand) using an opmask register as
select control. The blended result is written into the destination.

.PP
The destination and first source operands are ZMM registers. The second
source operand can be a ZMM register, a 512\-bit memory location or a
512\-bit vector broadcasted from a 32\-bit memory location.

.PP
The opmask register is not used as a writemask for this instruction.
Instead, the mask is used as an element selector: every element of the
destination is conditionally selected between first source or second
source using the value of the related mask bit (0 for the first source
operand, 1 for the second source operand).

.PP
If EVEX.z is set, the elements with corresponding mask bit value of 0 in
the destination operand are zeroed.

.SS Operation
.SS VPBLENDMD (EVEX encoded versions)
.PP
.RS

.nf
(KL, VL) = (4, 128), (8, 256), (16, 512)
FOR j←0 TO KL\-1
    i←j * 32
    IF k1[j] OR *no controlmask*
        THEN
            IF (EVEX.b = 1) AND (SRC2 *is memory*)
                THEN
                    DEST[i+31:i] ← SRC2[31:0]
                ELSE
                    DEST[i+31:i] ← SRC2[i+31:i]
            FI;
        ELSE
            IF *merging\-masking*
                THEN DEST[i+31:i]←SRC1[i+31:i]
                ELSE ; zeroing\-masking
                    DEST[i+31:i] ← 0
            FI;
    FI;
ENDFOR
DEST[MAXVL\-1:VL] ← 0;

.fi
.RE

.SS VPBLENDMD (EVEX encoded versions)
.PP
.RS

.nf
(KL, VL) = (4, 128), (8, 256), (16, 512)
FOR j←0 TO KL\-1
    i←j * 32
    IF k1[j] OR *no controlmask*
        THEN
            IF (EVEX.b = 1) AND (SRC2 *is memory*)
                THEN
                    DEST[i+31:i] ← SRC2[31:0]
                ELSE
                    DEST[i+31:i] ← SRC2[i+31:i]
            FI;
        ELSE
            IF *merging\-masking*
                THEN DEST[i+31:i]←SRC1[i+31:i]
                ELSE ; zeroing\-masking
                    DEST[i+31:i] ← 0
            FI;
    FI;
ENDFOR
DEST[MAXVL\-1:VL] ← 0

.fi
.RE

.SS Intel C/C++ Compiler Intrinsic Equivalent
.PP
.RS

.nf
VPBLENDMD \_\_m512i \_mm512\_mask\_blend\_epi32(\_\_mmask16 k, \_\_m512i a, \_\_m512i b);

VPBLENDMD \_\_m256i \_mm256\_mask\_blend\_epi32(\_\_mmask8 m, \_\_m256i a, \_\_m256i b);

VPBLENDMD \_\_m128i \_mm\_mask\_blend\_epi32(\_\_mmask8 m, \_\_m128i a, \_\_m128i b);

VPBLENDMQ \_\_m512i \_mm512\_mask\_blend\_epi64(\_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m512i a, \_\_m512i b);

VPBLENDMQ \_\_m256i \_mm256\_mask\_blend\_epi64(\_\_mmask8 m, \_\_m256i a, \_\_m256i b);

VPBLENDMQ \_\_m128i \_mm\_mask\_blend\_epi64(\_\_mmask8 m, \_\_m128i a, \_\_m128i b);

.fi
.RE

.SS SIMD Floating\-Point Exceptions
.PP
None

.SS Other Exceptions
.PP
See Exceptions Type E4.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
