.nh
.TH "X86-SHA1RNDS4" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
SHA1RNDS4 - PERFORM FOUR ROUNDS OF SHA1 OPERATION
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode/Instruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64/32 bit Mode Support\fR	\fB\fCCPUID Feature Flag\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
T{
NP 0F 3A CC /r ib SHA1RNDS4 xmm1, xmm2/m128, imm8
T}
	RMI	V/V	SHA	T{
Performs four rounds of SHA1 operation operating on SHA1 state (A,B,C,D) from xmm1, with a pre\-computed sum of the next 4 round message dwords and state variable E from xmm2/m128. The immediate byte controls logic functions and round constants.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l 
l l l l .
Op/En	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3
RMI	ModRM:reg (r, w)	ModRM:r/m (r)	Imm8
.TE

.SS Description
.PP
The SHA1RNDS4 instruction performs four rounds of SHA1 operation using
an initial SHA1 state (A,B,C,D) from the first operand (which is a
source operand and the destination operand) and some pre\-computed sum of
the next 4 round message dwords, and state variable E from the second
operand (a source operand). The updated SHA1 state (A,B,C,D) after four
rounds of processing is stored in the destination operand.

.SS Operation
.SS SHA1RNDS4
.PP
.RS

.nf
The function f() and Constant K are dependent on the value of the immediate.
IF ( imm8[1:0] = 0 )
    THEN f()←f0(), K←K0;
ELSE IF ( imm8[1:0] = 1 )
    THEN f()←f1(), K←K1;
ELSE IF ( imm8[1:0] = 2 )
    THEN f()←f2(), K←K2;
ELSE IF ( imm8[1:0] = 3 )
    THEN f()←f3(), K←K3;
FI;
A ← SRC1[127:96];
B ← SRC1[95:64];
C ← SRC1[63:32];
D ← SRC1[31:0];
W0E ← SRC2[127:96];
W1 ← SRC2[95:64];
W2 ← SRC2[63:32];
W3 ← SRC2[31:0];
Round i = 0 operation:
A\_1←f (B, C, D) + (A ROL 5) +W0E +K;
B\_1←A;
C\_1←B ROL 30;
D\_1←C;
E\_1←D;
FOR i = 1 to 3
    A\_(i +1) ← f (B\_i, C\_i, D\_i) + (A\_i ROL 5) +Wi+ E\_i +K;
    B\_(i +1)←A\_i;
    C\_(i +1)←B\_i ROL 30;
    D\_(i +1)←C\_i;
    E\_(i +1)←D\_i;
ENDFOR
DEST[127:96] ← A\_4;
DEST[95:64] ← B\_4;
DEST[63:32] ← C\_4;
DEST[31:0] ← D\_4;

.fi
.RE

.SS Intel C/C++ Compiler Intrinsic Equivalent
.PP
.RS

.nf
SHA1RNDS4: \_\_m128i \_mm\_sha1rnds4\_epu32(\_\_m128i, \_\_m128i, const int);

.fi
.RE

.SS Flags Affected
.PP
None

.SS SIMD Floating\-Point Exceptions
.PP
None

.SS Other Exceptions
.PP
See Exceptions Type 4.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
