.nh
.TH "X86-VCVTTSD2USI" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
VCVTTSD2USI - CONVERT WITH TRUNCATION SCALAR DOUBLE-PRECISION FLOATING-POINT VALUE TO UNSIGNED INTEGER
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode/Instruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64/32 bit Mode Support\fR	\fB\fCCPUID Feature Flag\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
T{
EVEX.LIG.F2.0F.W0 78 /r VCVTTSD2USI r32, xmm1/m64{sae}
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512F	T{
Convert one double\-precision floating\-point value from xmm1/m64 to one unsigned doubleword integer r32 using truncation.
T}
T{
EVEX.LIG.F2.0F.W1 78 /r VCVTTSD2USI r64, xmm1/m64{sae}
T}
	A	V/N.E.1	AVX512F	T{
Convert one double\-precision floating\-point value from xmm1/m64 to one unsigned quadword integer zero\-extended into r64 using truncation.
T}
.TE

.PP
.RS

.PP
1\&. For this specific instruction, EVEX.W in non\-64 bit is ignored;
the instructions behaves as if the W0 version is used.

.RE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
Op/En	Tuple Type	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
A	Tuple1 Fixed	ModRM:reg (w)	ModRM:r/m (r)	NA	NA
.TE

.SS Description
.PP
Converts with truncation a double\-precision floating\-point value in the
source operand (the second operand) to an unsigned doubleword integer
(or unsigned quadword integer if operand size is 64 bits) in the
destination operand (the first operand). The source operand can be an
XMM register or a 64\-bit memory location. The destination operand is a
general\-purpose register. When the source operand is an XMM register,
the double\-precision floating\-point value is contained in the low
quadword of the register.

.PP
When a conversion is inexact, the value returned is rounded according to
the rounding control bits in the MXCSR register. If a converted result
cannot be represented in the destination format, the floating\-point
invalid exception is raised, and if this exception is masked, the
integer value 2w – 1 is returned, where w represents the number of bits
in the destination format.

.PP
EVEX.W1 version: promotes the instruction to produce 64\-bit data in
64\-bit mode.

.SS Operation
.SS VCVTTSD2USI (EVEX encoded version)
.PP
.RS

.nf
IF 64\-Bit Mode and OperandSize = 64
    THEN DEST[63:0] ← Convert\_Double\_Precision\_Floating\_Point\_To\_UInteger\_Truncate(SRC[63:0]);
    ELSE DEST[31:0] ← Convert\_Double\_Precision\_Floating\_Point\_To\_UInteger\_Truncate(SRC[63:0]);
FI

.fi
.RE

.SS Intel C/C++ Compiler Intrinsic Equivalent
.PP
.RS

.nf
VCVTTSD2USI unsigned int \_mm\_cvttsd\_u32(\_\_m128d);

VCVTTSD2USI unsigned int \_mm\_cvtt\_roundsd\_u32(\_\_m128d, int sae);

VCVTTSD2USI unsigned \_\_int64 \_mm\_cvttsd\_u64(\_\_m128d);

VCVTTSD2USI unsigned \_\_int64 \_mm\_cvtt\_roundsd\_u64(\_\_m128d, int sae);

.fi
.RE

.SS SIMD Floating\-Point Exceptions
.PP
Invalid, Precision

.SS Other Exceptions
.PP
EVEX\-encoded instructions, see Exceptions Type E3NF.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
