.nh
.TH "X86-FPATAN" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
FPATAN - PARTIAL ARCTANGENT
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode*\fR	\fB\fCInstruction\fR	\fB\fC64\-Bit Mode\fR	\fB\fCCompat/Leg Mode\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
D9 F3	FPATAN	Valid	Valid	T{
Replace ST(1) with arctan(ST(1)/ST(0)) and pop the register stack.
T}
.TE

.PP
NOTES:

.PP
* SeeIA\-32ArchitectureCompatibilitysectionbelow.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Computes the arctangent of the source operand in register ST(1) divided
by the source operand in register ST(0), stores the result in ST(1), and
pops the FPU register stack. The result in register ST(0) has the same
sign as the source operand ST(1) and a magnitude less than +π.

.PP
The FPATAN instruction returns the angle between the X axis and the line
from the origin to the point (X,Y), where Y (the ordinate) is ST(1) and
X (the abscissa) is ST(0). The angle depends on the sign of X and Y
independently, not just on the sign of the ratio Y/X. This is because a
point (−X,Y) is in the second quadrant, resulting in an angle between
π/2 and π, while a point (X,−Y) is in the fourth quadrant, resulting in
an angle between 0 and −π/2. A point (−X,−Y) is in the third quadrant,
giving an angle between −π/2 and −π.

.PP
The following table shows the results obtained when computing the
arctangent of various classes of numbers, assuming that underflow does
not occur.

.PP
ST(0)

.PP
ST(1)

.PP
−∞

.PP
−F

.PP
−0

.PP
+0

.PP
+F

.PP
+∞

.PP
NaN

.PP
−∞

.PP
− 3π/4*

.PP
− π/2

.PP
− π/2

.PP
− π/2

.PP
− π/2

.PP
− π/4*

.PP
NaN

.PP
−F

.PP
\-p

.PP
−π to −π/2

.PP
−π/2

.PP
−π/2

.PP
−π/2 to −0

.PP
\-0

.PP
NaN

.PP
−0

.PP
\-p

.PP
\-p

.PP
\-p*

.PP
− 0*

.PP
−0

.PP
−0

.PP
NaN

.PP
+0

.PP
+p

.PP
+p

.PP
+ π*

.PP
+ 0*

.PP
+0

.PP
+0

.PP
NaN

.PP
+F

.PP
+p

.PP
+π to +π/2

.PP
+ π/2

.PP
+π/2

.PP
+π/2 to +0

.PP
+0

.PP
NaN

.PP
+∞

.PP
+3π/4*

.PP
+π/2

.PP
+π/2

.PP
+π/2

.PP
+ π/2

.PP
+ π/4*

.PP
NaN

.PP
NaN

.PP
NaN

.PP
NaN

.PP
NaN

.PP
NaN

.PP
NaN

.PP
NaN

.PP
NaN

.PP
Table 3\-30. FPATAN Results

.PP
.RS

.PP
F Meansfinitefloating\-pointvalue.

.PP
*
Table8\-10intheIntel®64andIA\-32ArchitecturesSoftwareDeveloper’sManual,Volume1,specifiesthattheratios0/0and∞/∞
generate the floating\-point invalid arithmetic\-operation exception
and, if this exception is masked, the floating\-point QNaN indefinite
value is returned. With the FPATAN instruction, the 0/0 or ∞/∞ value
is actually not calculated using division. Instead, the arctangent of
the two variables is derived from a standard mathematical formulation
that is generalized to allow complex numbers as arguments. In this
complex variable formulation, arctangent(0,0) etc. has well defined
values. These values are needed to develop a library to compute
transcendental functions with complex arguments, based on the FPU
functions that only allow floating\-point values as arguments.

.RE

.PP
There is no restriction on the range of source operands that FPATAN can
accept.

.PP
This instruction’s operation is the same in non\-64\-bit modes and 64\-bit
mode.

.SH IA\-32 ARCHITECTURE COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The source operands for this instruction are restricted for the 80287
math coprocessor to the following range:

.PP
0 ≤ |ST(1)| \&lt; |ST(0)| \&lt; +∞

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
ST(1) ← arctan(ST(1) / ST(0));
PopRegisterStack;

.fi
.RE

.SH FPU FLAGS AFFECTED
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
C1	T{
Set to 0 if stack underflow occurred.
T}
	T{
Set if result was rounded up; cleared otherwise.
T}
C0, C2, C3	Undefined.
.TE

.SH FLOATING\-POINT EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#IS	Stack underflow occurred.
#IA	T{
Source operand is an SNaN value or unsupported format.
T}
#D	T{
Source operand is a denormal value.
T}
#U	T{
Result is too small for destination format.
T}
#P	T{
Value cannot be represented exactly in destination format.
T}
.TE

.SH PROTECTED MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#NM	CR0.EM
[
bit 2
]
 or CR0.TS
[
bit 3
]
 = 1.
#MF	T{
If there is a pending x87 FPU exception.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH REAL\-ADDRESS MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH VIRTUAL\-8086 MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH COMPATIBILITY MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH 64\-BIT MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
