.nh
.TH "X86-PUSHF-PUSHFD-PUSHFQ" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
PUSHF-PUSHFD-PUSHFQ - PUSH EFLAGS REGISTER ONTO THE STACK
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode*\fR	\fB\fCInstruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64\-Bit Mode\fR	\fB\fCCompat/Leg Mode\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
9C	PUSHF	ZO	Valid	Valid	Push lower 16 bits of EFLAGS.
9C	PUSHFD	ZO	N.E.	Valid	Push EFLAGS.
9C	PUSHFQ	ZO	Valid	N.E.	Push RFLAGS.
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
Op/En	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
ZO	NA	NA	NA	NA
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Decrements the stack pointer by 4 (if the current operand\-size attribute
is 32) and pushes the entire contents of the EFLAGS register onto the
stack, or decrements the stack pointer by 2 (if the operand\-size
attribute is 16) and pushes the lower 16 bits of the EFLAGS register
(that is, the FLAGS register) onto the stack. These instructions reverse
the operation of the POPF/POPFD instructions.

.PP
When copying the entire EFLAGS register to the stack, the VM and RF
flags (bits 16 and 17) are not copied; instead, the values for these
flags are cleared in the EFLAGS image stored on the stack. See Chapter 3
of the Intel® 64 and IA\-32 Architectures Software Developer’s Manual,
Volume 1, for more information about the EFLAGS register.

.PP
The PUSHF (push flags) and PUSHFD (push flags double) mnemonics
reference the same opcode. The PUSHF instruction is intended for use
when the operand\-size attribute is 16 and the PUSHFD instruction for
when the operand\-size attribute is 32. Some assemblers may force the
operand size to 16 when PUSHF is used and to 32 when PUSHFD is used.
Others may treat these mnemonics as synonyms (PUSHF/PUSHFD) and use the
current setting of the operand\-size attribute to determine the size of
values to be pushed from the stack, regardless of the mnemonic used.

.PP
In 64\-bit mode, the instruction’s default operation is to decrement the
stack pointer (RSP) by 8 and pushes RFLAGS on the stack. 16\-bit
operation is supported using the operand size override prefix 66H.
32\-bit operand size cannot be encoded in this mode. When copying RFLAGS
to the stack, the VM and RF flags (bits 16 and 17) are not copied;
instead, values for these flags are cleared in the RFLAGS image stored
on the stack.

.PP
When operating in virtual\-8086 mode (EFLAGS.VM = 1) without the
virtual\-8086 mode extensions (CR4.VME = 0), the PUSHF/PUSHFD
instructions can be used only if IOPL = 3; otherwise, a
general\-protection exception (#GP) occurs. If the virtual\-8086 mode
extensions are enabled (CR4.VME = 1), PUSHF (but not PUSHFD) can be
executed in virtual\-8086 mode with IOPL \&lt; 3.

.PP
(The protected\-mode virtual\-interrupt feature — enabled by setting
CR4.PVI — affects the CLI and STI instructions in the same manner as the
virtual\-8086 mode extensions. PUSHF, however, is not affected by
CR4.PVI.)

.PP
In the real\-address mode, if the ESP or SP register is 1 when
PUSHF/PUSHFD instruction executes: an #SS exception is generated but
not delivered (the stack error reported prevents #SS delivery). Next,
the processor generates a #DF exception and enters a shutdown state as
described in the #DF discussion in Chapter 6 of the Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual, Volume 3A.

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
IF (PE = 0) or (PE = 1 and ((VM = 0) or (VM = 1 and IOPL = 3)))
(* Real\-Address Mode, Protected mode, or Virtual\-8086 mode with IOPL equal to 3 *)
    THEN
        IF OperandSize = 32
            THEN
                push (EFLAGS AND 00FCFFFFH);
                (* VM and RF bits are cleared in image stored on the stack *)
            ELSE
                push (EFLAGS); (* Lower 16 bits only *)
        FI;
    ELSE IF 64\-bit MODE (* In 64\-bit Mode *)
        IF OperandSize = 64
            THEN
                push (RFLAGS AND 00000000\_00FCFFFFH);
                (* VM and RF bits are cleared in image stored on the stack; *)
            ELSE
                push (EFLAGS); (* Lower 16 bits only *)
        FI;
    ELSE (* In Virtual\-8086 Mode with IOPL less than 3 *)
        IF (CR4.VME = 0) OR (OperandSize = 32)
            THEN #GP(0); (* Trap to virtual\-8086 monitor *)
            ELSE
                tempFLAGS = EFLAGS[15:0];
                tempFLAGS[9] = tempFLAGS[19]; (* VIF replaces IF *)
                tempFlags[13:12]=3; (*IOPLissetto3inimagestoredonthestack*)
                push (tempFLAGS);
        FI;
FI;

.fi
.RE

.SH FLAGS AFFECTED
.PP
None.

.SH PROTECTED MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#SS(0)	T{
If the new value of the ESP register is outside the stack segment boundary.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If an unaligned memory reference is made while CPL = 3 and alignment checking is enabled.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH REAL\-ADDRESS MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH VIRTUAL\-8086 MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If the I/O privilege level is less than 3.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If an unaligned memory reference is made while alignment checking is enabled.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH COMPATIBILITY MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH 64\-BIT MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If the memory address is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#SS(0)	T{
If the stack address is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If an unaligned memory reference is made while CPL = 3 and alignment checking is enabled.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
