.nh
.TH "X86-VFIXUPIMMPS" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
VFIXUPIMMPS - FIX UP SPECIAL PACKED FLOAT32 VALUES
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode/Instruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64/32 bit Mode Support\fR	\fB\fCCPUID Feature Flag\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
T{
EVEX.128.66.0F3A.W0 54 /r VFIXUPIMMPS xmm1 {k1}{z}, xmm2, xmm3/m128/m32bcst, imm8
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512F	T{
Fix up special numbers in float32 vector xmm1, float32 vector xmm2 and int32 vector xmm3/m128/m32bcst and store the result in xmm1, under writemask.
T}
T{
EVEX.256.66.0F3A.W0 54 /r VFIXUPIMMPS ymm1 {k1}{z}, ymm2, ymm3/m256/m32bcst, imm8
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512F	T{
Fix up special numbers in float32 vector ymm1, float32 vector ymm2 and int32 vector ymm3/m256/m32bcst and store the result in ymm1, under writemask.
T}
T{
EVEX.512.66.0F3A.W0 54 /r ib VFIXUPIMMPS zmm1 {k1}{z}, zmm2, zmm3/m512/m32bcst{sae}, imm8
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512F	T{
Fix up elements of float32 vector in zmm2 using int32 vector table in zmm3/m512/m32bcst, combine with preserved elements from zmm1, and store the result in zmm1.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
Op/En	Tuple Type	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
A	Full	ModRM:reg (r, w)	EVEX.vvvv	ModRM:r/m (r)	Imm8
.TE

.SS Description
.PP
Perform fix\-up of doubleword elements encoded in single\-precision
floating\-point format in the first source operand (the second operand)
using a 32\-bit, two\-level look\-up table specified in the corresponding
doubleword element of the second source operand (the third operand) with
exception reporting specifier imm8. The elements that are fixed\-up are
selected by mask bits of 1 specified in the opmask k1. Mask bits of 0 in
the opmask k1 or table response action of 0000b preserves the
corresponding element of the first operand. The fixed\-up elements from
the first source operand and the preserved element in the first operand
are combined as the final results in the destination operand (the first
operand).

.PP
The destination and the first source operands are ZMM/YMM/XMM registers.
The second source operand can be a ZMM/YMM/XMM register, a
512/256/128\-bit memory location or a 512/256/128\-bit vector broadcasted
from a 64\-bit memory location.

.PP
The two\-level look\-up table perform a fix\-up of each SP FP input data in
the first source operand by decoding the input data encoding into 8
token types. A response table is defined for each token type that
converts the input encoding in the first source operand with one of 16
response actions.

.PP
This instruction is specifically intended for use in fixing up the
results of arithmetic calculations involving one source so that they
match the spec, although it is generally useful for fixing up the
results of multiple\-instruction sequences to reflect special\-number
inputs. For example, consider rcp(0). Input 0 to rcp, and you should get
INF according to the DX10 spec. However, evaluating rcp via
Newton\-Raphson, where x=approx(1/0), yields an incorrect result. To deal
with this, VFIXUPIMMPS can be used after the N\-R reciprocal sequence to
set the result to the correct value (i.e. INF when the input is 0).

.PP
If MXCSR.DAZ is not set, denormal input elements in the first source
operand are considered as normal inputs and do not trigger any fixup nor
fault reporting.

.PP
Imm8 is used to set the required flags reporting. It supports #ZE and
#IE fault reporting (see details below).

.PP
MXCSR.DAZ is used and refer to zmm2 only (i.e. zmm1 is not considered as
zero in case MXCSR.DAZ is set).

.PP
MXCSR mask bits are ignored and are treated as if all mask bits are set
to masked response). If any of the imm8 bits is set and the condition
met for fault reporting, MXCSR.IE or MXCSR.ZE might be updated.

.SS Operation
.PP
.RS

.nf
enum TOKEN\_TYPE
{
    QNAN\_TOKEN ← 0,
    SNAN\_TOKEN ← 1,
    ZERO\_VALUE\_TOKEN ← 2,
    POS\_ONE\_VALUE\_TOKEN ← 3,
    NEG\_INF\_TOKEN ← 4,
    POS\_INF\_TOKEN ← 5,
    NEG\_VALUE\_TOKEN ← 6,
    POS\_VALUE\_TOKEN ← 7
}
FIXUPIMM\_SP ( dest[31:0], src1[31:0],tbl3[31:0], imm8 [7:0]){
    tsrc[31:0]←((src1[30:23] = 0) AND (MXCSR.DAZ =1)) ? 0.0 : src1[31:0]
    CASE(tsrc[31:0] of TOKEN\_TYPE) {
        QNAN\_TOKEN: j←0;
        SNAN\_TOKEN: j←1;
        ZERO\_VALUE\_TOKEN: j←2;
        POS\_ONE\_VALUE\_TOKEN: j←3;
        NEG\_INF\_TOKEN: j←4;
        POS\_INF\_TOKEN: j←5;
        NEG\_VALUE\_TOKEN: j←6;
        POS\_VALUE\_TOKEN: j←7;
    }
            ; end source special CASE(tsrc...)
    ; The required response from src3 table is extracted
    token\_response[3:0] = tbl3[3+4*j:4*j];
    CASE(token\_response[3:0]) {
        0000: dest[31:0]←dest[31:0]; ; preserve content of DEST
        0001: dest[31:0]←tsrc[31:0]; ; pass through src1 normal input value, denormal as zero
        0010: dest[31:0]←QNaN(tsrc[31:0]);
        0011: dest[31:0]←QNAN\_Indefinite;
        0100: dest[31:0]←\-INF;
        0101: dest[31:0]←+INF;
        0110: dest[31:0]←tsrc.sign? –INF : +INF;
        0111: dest[31:0]←\-0;
        1000: dest[31:0]←+0;
        1001: dest[31:0]←\-1;
        1010: dest[31:0]←+1;
        1011: dest[31:0]←1⁄2;
        1100: dest[31:0]←90.0;
        1101: dest[31:0]←PI/2;
        1110: dest[31:0]←MAX\_FLOAT;
        1111: dest[31:0]←\-MAX\_FLOAT;
    }
            ; end of token\_response CASE
    ; The required fault reporting from imm8 is extracted
    ; TOKENs are mutually exclusive and TOKENs priority defines the order.
    ; Multiple faults related to a single token can occur simultaneously.
    IF (tsrc[31:0] of TOKEN\_TYPE: ZERO\_VALUE\_TOKEN) AND imm8[0] then set #ZE;
    IF (tsrc[31:0] of TOKEN\_TYPE: ZERO\_VALUE\_TOKEN) AND imm8[1] then set #IE;
    IF (tsrc[31:0] of TOKEN\_TYPE: ONE\_VALUE\_TOKEN) AND imm8[2] then set #ZE;
    IF (tsrc[31:0] of TOKEN\_TYPE: ONE\_VALUE\_TOKEN) AND imm8[3] then set #IE;
    IF (tsrc[31:0] of TOKEN\_TYPE: SNAN\_TOKEN) AND imm8[4] then set #IE;
    IF (tsrc[31:0] of TOKEN\_TYPE: NEG\_INF\_TOKEN) AND imm8[5] then set #IE;
    IF (tsrc[31:0] of TOKEN\_TYPE: NEG\_VALUE\_TOKEN) AND imm8[6] then set #IE;
    IF (tsrc[31:0] of TOKEN\_TYPE: POS\_INF\_TOKEN) AND imm8[7] then set #IE;
        ; end fault reporting
    return dest[31:0];
}
        ; end of FIXUPIMM\_SP()

.fi
.RE

.SS VFIXUPIMMPS (EVEX)
.PP
.RS

.nf
(KL, VL) = (4, 128), (8, 256), (16, 512)
FOR j←0 TO KL\-1
    i←j * 32
    IF k1[j] OR *no writemask*
        THEN
            IF (EVEX.b = 1) AND (SRC2 *is memory*)
                THEN
                    DEST[i+31:i]←FIXUPIMM\_SP(DEST[i+31:i], SRC1[i+31:i], SRC2[31:0], imm8 [7:0])
                ELSE
                    DEST[i+31:i]←FIXUPIMM\_SP(DEST[i+31:i], SRC1[i+31:i], SRC2[i+31:i], imm8 [7:0])
            FI;
        ELSE
            IF *merging\-masking* ; merging\-masking
                THEN *DEST[i+31:i] remains unchanged*
                ELSE DEST[i+31:i]←0
                        ; zeroing\-masking
            FI
    FI;
ENDFOR
DEST[MAXVL\-1:VL] ← 0
Immediate Control Description:

.fi
.RE

.PP
76543210+INF #IE\-VE #IE\-INF #IESNaN #IEONE #IEONE #ZEZERO
#IEZERO #ZE

.PP
Figure 5\-10. VFIXUPIMMPS Immediate Control Description

.SS Intel C/C++ Compiler Intrinsic Equivalent
.PP
.RS

.nf
VFIXUPIMMPS \_\_m512 \_mm512\_fixupimm\_ps( \_\_m512 a, \_\_m512i tbl, int imm);

VFIXUPIMMPS \_\_m512 \_mm512\_mask\_fixupimm\_ps(\_\_m512 s, \_\_mmask16 k, \_\_m512 a, \_\_m512i tbl, int imm);

VFIXUPIMMPS \_\_m512 \_mm512\_maskz\_fixupimm\_ps( \_\_mmask16 k, \_\_m512 a, \_\_m512i tbl, int imm);

VFIXUPIMMPS \_\_m512 \_mm512\_fixupimm\_round\_ps( \_\_m512 a, \_\_m512i tbl, int imm, int sae);

VFIXUPIMMPS \_\_m512 \_mm512\_mask\_fixupimm\_round\_ps(\_\_m512 s, \_\_mmask16 k, \_\_m512 a, \_\_m512i tbl, int imm, int sae);

VFIXUPIMMPS \_\_m512 \_mm512\_maskz\_fixupimm\_round\_ps( \_\_mmask16 k, \_\_m512 a, \_\_m512i tbl, int imm, int sae);

VFIXUPIMMPS \_\_m256 \_mm256\_fixupimm\_ps( \_\_m256 a, \_\_m256i tbl, int imm);

VFIXUPIMMPS \_\_m256 \_mm256\_mask\_fixupimm\_ps(\_\_m256 s, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m256 a, \_\_m256i tbl, int imm);

VFIXUPIMMPS \_\_m256 \_mm256\_maskz\_fixupimm\_ps( \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m256 a, \_\_m256i tbl, int imm);

VFIXUPIMMPS \_\_m128 \_mm\_fixupimm\_ps( \_\_m128 a, \_\_m128i tbl, int imm);

VFIXUPIMMPS \_\_m128 \_mm\_mask\_fixupimm\_ps(\_\_m128 s, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m128 a, \_\_m128i tbl, int imm);

VFIXUPIMMPS \_\_m128 \_mm\_maskz\_fixupimm\_ps( \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m128 a, \_\_m128i tbl, int imm);

.fi
.RE

.SS SIMD Floating\-Point Exceptions
.PP
Zero, Invalid

.SS Other Exceptions
.PP
See Exceptions Type E2.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
