.nh
.TH "X86-VGETEXPPD" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
VGETEXPPD - CONVERT EXPONENTS OF PACKED DP FP VALUES TO DP FP VALUES
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode/Instruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64/32 bit Mode Support\fR	\fB\fCCPUID Feature Flag\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
T{
EVEX.128.66.0F38.W1 42 /r VGETEXPPD xmm1 {k1}{z}, xmm2/m128/m64bcst
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512F	T{
Convert the exponent of packed double\-precision floating\-point values in the source operand to DP FP results representing unbiased integer exponents and stores the results in the destination register.
T}
T{
EVEX.256.66.0F38.W1 42 /r VGETEXPPD ymm1 {k1}{z}, ymm2/m256/m64bcst
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512F	T{
Convert the exponent of packed double\-precision floating\-point values in the source operand to DP FP results representing unbiased integer exponents and stores the results in the destination register.
T}
T{
EVEX.512.66.0F38.W1 42 /r VGETEXPPD zmm1 {k1}{z}, zmm2/m512/m64bcst{sae}
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512F	T{
Convert the exponent of packed double\-precision floating\-point values in the source operand to DP FP results representing unbiased integer exponents and stores the results in the destination under writemask k1.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
Op/En	Tuple Type	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
A	Full	ModRM:reg (w)	ModRM:r/m (r)	NA	NA
.TE

.SS Description
.PP
Extracts the biased exponents from the normalized DP FP representation
of each qword data element of the source operand (the second operand) as
unbiased signed integer value, or convert the denormal representation of
input data to unbiased negative integer values. Each integer value of
the unbiased exponent is converted to double\-precision FP value and
written to the corresponding qword elements of the destination operand
(the first operand) as DP FP numbers.

.PP
The destination operand is a ZMM/YMM/XMM register and updated under the
writemask. The source operand can be a ZMM/YMM/XMM register, a
512/256/128\-bit memory location, or a 512/256/128\-bit vector broadcasted
from a 64\-bit memory location.

.PP
EVEX.vvvv is reserved and must be 1111b, otherwise instructions will
#UD.

.PP
Each GETEXP operation converts the exponent value into a FP number
(permitting input value in denormal representation). Special cases of
input values are listed in Table 5\-14.

.PP
The formula is:

.PP
GETEXP(x) = floor(log2(|x|))

.PP
Notation floor(x) stands for the greatest integer not exceeding real
number x.

.TS
allbox;
l l l 
l l l .
\fB\fCInput Operand\fR	\fB\fCResult\fR	\fB\fCComments\fR
src1 = NaN	QNaN(src1)	If (SRC = SNaN) then 
#
IE If (SRC = denormal) then 
#
DE
	0 \&lt; |src1| \&lt; INF	floor(log
2
(
|
src1
|
))
	| src1| = +INF	+INF
	| src1| = 0	\-INF
.TE

.PP
Table 5\-14. VGETEXPPD/SD Special Cases

.SS Operation
.PP
.RS

.nf
NormalizeExpTinyDPFP(SRC[63:0])
{
    // Jbit is the hidden integral bit of a FP number. In case of denormal number it has the value of ZERO.
    Src.Jbit ← 0;
    Dst.exp ← 1;
    Dst.fraction ← SRC[51:0];
    WHILE(Src.Jbit = 0)
    {
        Src.Jbit←Dst.fraction[51];
                        // Get the fraction MSB
        Dst.fraction←Dst.fraction << 1 ;
                            // One bit shift left
        Dst.exp\-\- ;
                // Decrement the exponent
    }
    Dst.fraction←0;
    Dst.sign←1;
    TMP[63:0] ← MXCSR.DAZ? 0 : (Dst.sign << 63) OR (Dst.exp << 52) OR (Dst.fraction) ;
    Return (TMP[63:0]);
}
ConvertExpDPFP(SRC[63:0])
{
    Src.sign←0;
                // Zero out sign bit
    Src.exp ← SRC[62:52];
    Src.fraction ← SRC[51:0];
    // Check for NaN
    IF (SRC = NaN)
    {
        IF ( SRC = SNAN ) SET IE;
        Return QNAN(SRC);
    }
    // Check for +INF
    IF (SRC = +INF) Return (SRC);
    // check if zero operand
    IF ((Src.exp = 0) AND ((Src.fraction = 0) OR (MXCSR.DAZ = 1))) Return (\-INF);
    }
    ELSE // check if denormal operand (notice that MXCSR.DAZ = 0)
    {
        IF ((Src.exp = 0) AND (Src.fraction != 0))
        {
            TMP[63:0]←NormalizeExpTinyDPFP(SRC[63:0]) ;
                                // Get Normalized Exponent
            Set #DE
        }
        ELSE // exponent value is correct
        {
            TMP[63:0]←(Src.sign << 63) OR (Src.exp << 52) OR (Src.fraction) ;
        }
        TMP←SAR(TMP, 52) ;
                    // Shift Arithmetic Right
        TMP←TMP – 1023;
                    // Subtract Bias
        Return CvtI2D(TMP);
                    // Convert INT to Double\-Precision FP number
    }
}

.fi
.RE

.SS VGETEXPPD (EVEX encoded versions)
.PP
.RS

.nf
(KL, VL) = (2, 128), (4, 256), (8, 512)
FOR j←0 TO KL\-1
    i←j * 64
    IF k1[j] OR *no writemask*
        THEN
            IF (EVEX.b = 1) AND (SRC *is memory*)
                THEN
                    DEST[i+63:i] ←
            ConvertExpDPFP(SRC[63:0])
                ELSE
                    DEST[i+63:i] ←
            ConvertExpDPFP(SRC[i+63:i])
            FI;
        ELSE
            IF *merging\-masking*
                THEN *DEST[i+63:i] remains unchanged*
                ELSE ; zeroing\-masking
                    DEST[i+63:i] ← 0
            FI
    FI;
ENDFOR
DEST[MAXVL\-1:VL] ← 0

.fi
.RE

.SS Intel C/C++ Compiler Intrinsic Equivalent
.PP
.RS

.nf
VGETEXPPD \_\_m512d \_mm512\_getexp\_pd(\_\_m512d a);

VGETEXPPD \_\_m512d \_mm512\_mask\_getexp\_pd(\_\_m512d s, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m512d a);

VGETEXPPD \_\_m512d \_mm512\_maskz\_getexp\_pd( \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m512d a);

VGETEXPPD \_\_m512d \_mm512\_getexp\_round\_pd(\_\_m512d a, int sae);

VGETEXPPD \_\_m512d \_mm512\_mask\_getexp\_round\_pd(\_\_m512d s, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m512d a, int sae);

VGETEXPPD \_\_m512d \_mm512\_maskz\_getexp\_round\_pd( \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m512d a, int sae);

VGETEXPPD \_\_m256d \_mm256\_getexp\_pd(\_\_m256d a);

VGETEXPPD \_\_m256d \_mm256\_mask\_getexp\_pd(\_\_m256d s, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m256d a);

VGETEXPPD \_\_m256d \_mm256\_maskz\_getexp\_pd( \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m256d a);

VGETEXPPD \_\_m128d \_mm\_getexp\_pd(\_\_m128d a);

VGETEXPPD \_\_m128d \_mm\_mask\_getexp\_pd(\_\_m128d s, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m128d a);

VGETEXPPD \_\_m128d \_mm\_maskz\_getexp\_pd( \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m128d a);

.fi
.RE

.SS SIMD Floating\-Point Exceptions
.PP
Invalid, Denormal

.SS Other Exceptions
.PP
See Exceptions Type E2.

.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#UD	If EVEX.vvvv != 1111B.
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
