.nh
.TH "X86-CVTPD2PS" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
CVTPD2PS - CONVERT PACKED DOUBLE-PRECISION FLOATING-POINT VALUES TO PACKED SINGLE-PRECISION FLOATING-POINT VALUES
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode/Instruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64/32 bit Mode Support\fR	\fB\fCCPUID Feature Flag\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
T{
66 0F 5A /r CVTPD2PS xmm1, xmm2/m128
T}
	A	V/V	SSE2	T{
Convert two packed double\-precision floating\-point values in xmm2/mem to two single\-precision floating\-point values in xmm1.
T}
T{
VEX.128.66.0F.WIG 5A /r VCVTPD2PS xmm1, xmm2/m128
T}
	A	V/V	AVX	T{
Convert two packed double\-precision floating\-point values in xmm2/mem to two single\-precision floating\-point values in xmm1.
T}
T{
VEX.256.66.0F.WIG 5A /r VCVTPD2PS xmm1, ymm2/m256
T}
	A	V/V	AVX	T{
Convert four packed double\-precision floating\-point values in ymm2/mem to four single\-precision floating\-point values in xmm1.
T}
T{
EVEX.128.66.0F.W1 5A /r VCVTPD2PS xmm1 {k1}{z}, xmm2/m128/m64bcst
T}
	B	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512F	T{
Convert two packed double\-precision floating\-point values in xmm2/m128/m64bcst to two single\-precision floating\-point values in xmm1with writemask k1.
T}
T{
EVEX.256.66.0F.W1 5A /r VCVTPD2PS xmm1 {k1}{z}, ymm2/m256/m64bcst
T}
	B	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512F	T{
Convert four packed double\-precision floating\-point values in ymm2/m256/m64bcst to four single\-precision floating\-point values in xmm1with writemask k1.
T}
T{
EVEX.512.66.0F.W1 5A /r VCVTPD2PS ymm1 {k1}{z}, zmm2/m512/m64bcst{er}
T}
	B	V/V	AVX512F	T{
Convert eight packed double\-precision floating\-point values in zmm2/m512/m64bcst to eight single\-precision floating\-point values in ymm1with writemask k1.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
Op/En	Tuple Type	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
A	NA	ModRM:reg (w)	ModRM:r/m (r)	NA	NA
B	Full	ModRM:reg (w)	ModRM:r/m (r)	NA	NA
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Converts two, four or eight packed double\-precision floating\-point
values in the source operand (second operand) to two, four or eight
packed single\-precision floating\-point values in the destination operand
(first operand).

.PP
When a conversion is inexact, the value returned is rounded according to
the rounding control bits in the MXCSR register or the embedded rounding
control bits.

.PP
EVEX encoded versions: The source operand is a ZMM/YMM/XMM register, a
512/256/128\-bit memory location, or a 512/256/128\-bit vector broadcasted
from a 64\-bit memory location. The destination operand is a YMM/XMM/XMM
(low 64\-bits) register conditionally updated with writemask k1. The
upper bits (MAXVL\-1:256/128/64) of the corresponding destination are
zeroed.

.PP
VEX.256 encoded version: The source operand is a YMM register or 256\-
bit memory location. The destination operand is an XMM register. The
upper bits (MAXVL\-1:128) of the corresponding ZMM register destination
are zeroed.

.PP
VEX.128 encoded version: The source operand is an XMM register or 128\-
bit memory location. The destination operand is a XMM register. The
upper bits (MAXVL\-1:64) of the corresponding ZMM register destination
are zeroed.

.PP
128\-bit Legacy SSE version: The source operand is an XMM register or
128\- bit memory location. The destination operand is an XMM register.
Bits[127:64] of the destination XMM register are zeroed. However, the
upper Bits (MAXVL\-1:128) of the corresponding ZMM register destination
are unmodified.

.PP
VEX.vvvv and EVEX.vvvv are reserved and must be 1111b otherwise
instructions will #UD.

.PP
X1X0X3X2SRCDEST0X3X2X1X0

.PP
Figure 3\-13. VCVTPD2PS (VEX.256 encoded version)

.SH OPERATION
.SS VCVTPD2PS (EVEX encoded version) when src operand is a register
.PP
.RS

.nf
(KL, VL) = (2, 128), (4, 256), (8, 512)
IF (VL = 512) AND (EVEX.b = 1)
    THEN
        SET\_RM(EVEX.RC);
    ELSE
        SET\_RM(MXCSR.RM);
FI;
FOR j←0 TO KL\-1
    i←j * 32
    k←j * 64
    IF k1[j] OR *no writemask*
        THEN
            DEST[i+31:i] ← Convert\_Double\_Precision\_Floating\_Point\_To\_Single\_Precision\_Floating\_Point(SRC[k+63:k])
        ELSE
            IF *merging\-masking* ; merging\-masking
                THEN *DEST[i+31:i] remains unchanged*
                ELSE ; zeroing\-masking
                    DEST[i+31:i] ← 0
            FI
    FI;
ENDFOR
DEST[MAXVL\-1:VL/2] ← 0

.fi
.RE

.SS VCVTPD2PS (EVEX encoded version) when src operand is a memory source
.PP
.RS

.nf
(KL, VL) = (2, 128), (4, 256), (8, 512)
FOR j←0 TO KL\-1
    i←j * 32
    k←j * 64
    IF k1[j] OR *no writemask*
        THEN
            IF (EVEX.b = 1)
                THEN
                    DEST[i+31:i] ←Convert\_Double\_Precision\_Floating\_Point\_To\_Single\_Precision\_Floating\_Point(SRC[63:0])
                ELSE
                    DEST[i+31:i] ← Convert\_Double\_Precision\_Floating\_Point\_To\_Single\_Precision\_Floating\_Point(SRC[k+63:k])
            FI;
        ELSE
            IF *merging\-masking* ; merging\-masking
                THEN *DEST[i+31:i] remains unchanged*
                ELSE ; zeroing\-masking
                    DEST[i+31:i] ← 0
            FI
    FI;
ENDFOR
DEST[MAXVL\-1:VL/2] ← 0

.fi
.RE

.SS VCVTPD2PS (VEX.256 encoded version)
.PP
.RS

.nf
DEST[31:0] ← Convert\_Double\_Precision\_To\_Single\_Precision\_Floating\_Point(SRC[63:0])
DEST[63:32] ← Convert\_Double\_Precision\_To\_Single\_Precision\_Floating\_Point(SRC[127:64])
DEST[95:64] ← Convert\_Double\_Precision\_To\_Single\_Precision\_Floating\_Point(SRC[191:128])
DEST[127:96] ← Convert\_Double\_Precision\_To\_Single\_Precision\_Floating\_Point(SRC[255:192)
DEST[MAXVL\-1:128] ← 0

.fi
.RE

.SS VCVTPD2PS (VEX.128 encoded version)
.PP
.RS

.nf
DEST[31:0] ← Convert\_Double\_Precision\_To\_Single\_Precision\_Floating\_Point(SRC[63:0])
DEST[63:32] ← Convert\_Double\_Precision\_To\_Single\_Precision\_Floating\_Point(SRC[127:64])
DEST[MAXVL\-1:64] ← 0

.fi
.RE

.SS CVTPD2PS (128\-bit Legacy SSE version)
.PP
.RS

.nf
DEST[31:0] ← Convert\_Double\_Precision\_To\_Single\_Precision\_Floating\_Point(SRC[63:0])
DEST[63:32] ← Convert\_Double\_Precision\_To\_Single\_Precision\_Floating\_Point(SRC[127:64])
DEST[127:64] ← 0
DEST[MAXVL\-1:128] (unmodified)

.fi
.RE

.SH INTEL C/C++ COMPILER INTRINSIC EQUIVALENT
.PP
.RS

.nf
VCVTPD2PS \_\_m256 \_mm512\_cvtpd\_ps( \_\_m512d a);

VCVTPD2PS \_\_m256 \_mm512\_mask\_cvtpd\_ps( \_\_m256 s, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m512d a);

VCVTPD2PS \_\_m256 \_mm512\_maskz\_cvtpd\_ps( \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m512d a);

VCVTPD2PS \_\_m256 \_mm512\_cvt\_roundpd\_ps( \_\_m512d a, int r);

VCVTPD2PS \_\_m256 \_mm512\_mask\_cvt\_roundpd\_ps( \_\_m256 s, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m512d a, int r);

VCVTPD2PS \_\_m256 \_mm512\_maskz\_cvt\_roundpd\_ps( \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m512d a, int r);

VCVTPD2PS \_\_m128 \_mm256\_mask\_cvtpd\_ps( \_\_m128 s, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m256d a);

VCVTPD2PS \_\_m128 \_mm256\_maskz\_cvtpd\_ps( \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m256d a);

VCVTPD2PS \_\_m128 \_mm\_mask\_cvtpd\_ps( \_\_m128 s, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m128d a);

VCVTPD2PS \_\_m128 \_mm\_maskz\_cvtpd\_ps( \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m128d a);

VCVTPD2PS \_\_m128 \_mm256\_cvtpd\_ps (\_\_m256d a)

CVTPD2PS \_\_m128 \_mm\_cvtpd\_ps (\_\_m128d a)

.fi
.RE

.SH SIMD FLOATING\-POINT EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Invalid, Precision, Underflow, Overflow, Denormal

.SH OTHER EXCEPTIONS
.PP
VEX\-encoded instructions, see Exceptions Type 2;

.PP
EVEX\-encoded instructions, see Exceptions Type E2.

.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#UD	T{
If VEX.vvvv != 1111B or EVEX.vvvv != 1111B.
T}
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
