.nh
.TH "X86-PINSRB-PINSRD-PINSRQ" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
PINSRB-PINSRD-PINSRQ - INSERT BYTE-DWORD-QWORD
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode/Instruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/ En\fR	\fB\fC64/32 bit Mode Support\fR	\fB\fCCPUID Feature Flag\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
T{
66 0F 3A 20 /r ib PINSRB xmm1, r32/m8, imm8
T}
	A	V/V	SSE4\_1	T{
Insert a byte integer value from imm8.
T}
T{
66 0F 3A 22 /r ib PINSRD xmm1, r/m32, imm8
T}
	A	V/V	SSE4\_1	T{
Insert a dword integer value from imm8.
T}
T{
66 REX.W 0F 3A 22 /r ib PINSRQ xmm1, r/m64, imm8
T}
	A	V/N. E.	SSE4\_1	T{
Insert a qword integer value from imm8.
T}
T{
VEX.128.66.0F3A.W0 20 /r ib VPINSRB xmm1, xmm2, r32/m8, imm8
T}
	B	V1/V	AVX	T{
Merge a byte integer value from imm8.
T}
T{
VEX.128.66.0F3A.W0 22 /r ib VPINSRD xmm1, xmm2, r/m32, imm8
T}
	B	V/V	AVX	T{
Insert a dword integer value from imm8.
T}
T{
VEX.128.66.0F3A.W1 22 /r ib VPINSRQ xmm1, xmm2, r/m64, imm8
T}
	B	V/I2	AVX	T{
Insert a qword integer value from imm8.
T}
T{
EVEX.128.66.0F3A.WIG 20 /r ib VPINSRB xmm1, xmm2, r32/m8, imm8
T}
	C	V/V	AVX512BW	T{
Merge a byte integer value from r32/m8 and rest from xmm2 into xmm1 at the byte offset in imm8.
T}
T{
EVEX.128.66.0F3A.W0 22 /r ib VPINSRD xmm1, xmm2, r32/m32, imm8
T}
	C	V/V	AVX512DQ	T{
Insert a dword integer value from r32/m32 and rest from xmm2 into xmm1 at the dword offset in imm8.
T}
T{
EVEX.128.66.0F3A.W1 22 /r ib VPINSRQ xmm1, xmm2, r64/m64, imm8
T}
	C	V/N.E.2	AVX512DQ	T{
Insert a qword integer value from r64/m64 and rest from xmm2 into xmm1 at the qword offset in imm8.
T}
.TE

.PP
.RS

.PP
1\&. In 64\-bit mode, VEX.W1 is ignored for VPINSRB (similar to legacy
REX.W=1 prefix with PINSRB).

.PP
2\&. VEX.W/EVEX.W in non\-64 bit is ignored; the instructions behaves as
if the W0 version is used.

.RE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
Op/En	Tuple Type	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
A	NA	ModRM:reg (w)	ModRM:r/m (r)	imm8	NA
B	NA	ModRM:reg (w)	VEX.vvvv (r)	ModRM:r/m (r)	imm8
C	Tuple1 Scalar	ModRM:reg (w)	EVEX.vvvv (r)	ModRM:r/m (r)	Imm8
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Copies a byte/dword/qword from the source operand (second operand) and
inserts it in the destination operand (first operand) at the location
specified with the count operand (third operand). (The other elements in
the destination register are left untouched.) The source operand can be
a general\-purpose register or a memory location. (When the source
operand is a general\-purpose register, PINSRB copies the low byte of the
register.) The destination operand is an XMM register. The count operand
is an 8\-bit immediate. When specifying a qword[dword, byte] location
in an XMM register, the [2, 4] least\-significant bit(s) of the count
operand specify the location.

.PP
In 64\-bit mode and not encoded with VEX/EVEX, using a REX prefix in the
form of REX.R permits this instruction to access additional registers
(XMM8\-XMM15, R8\-15). Use of REX.W permits the use of 64 bit general
purpose registers.

.PP
128\-bit Legacy SSE version: Bits (MAXVL\-1:128) of the corresponding YMM
destination register remain unchanged.

.PP
VEX.128 encoded version: Bits (MAXVL\-1:128) of the destination register
are zeroed. VEX.L must be 0, otherwise the instruction will #UD.
Attempt to execute VPINSRQ in non\-64\-bit mode will cause #UD.

.PP
EVEX.128 encoded version: Bits (MAXVL\-1:128) of the destination register
are zeroed. EVEX.L’L must be 0, otherwise the instruction will #UD.

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
CASE OF
    PINSRB: SEL←COUNT[3:0];
            MASK←(0FFH << (SEL * 8));
            TEMP←(((SRC[7:0] << (SEL *8)) AND MASK);
    PINSRD: SEL←COUNT[1:0];
            MASK←(0FFFFFFFFH << (SEL * 32));
            TEMP←(((SRC << (SEL *32)) AND MASK) ;
    PINSRQ: SEL←COUNT[0]
            MASK←(0FFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFH << (SEL * 64));
            TEMP←(((SRC << (SEL *64)) AND MASK) ;
ESAC;
        DEST←((DEST AND NOT MASK) OR TEMP);

.fi
.RE

.SS VPINSRB (VEX/EVEX encoded version)
.PP
.RS

.nf
SEL ← imm8[3:0]
DEST[127:0]←write\_b\_element(SEL, SRC2, SRC1)
DEST[MAXVL\-1:128] ← 0

.fi
.RE

.SS VPINSRD (VEX/EVEX encoded version)
.PP
.RS

.nf
SEL ← imm8[1:0]
DEST[127:0]←write\_d\_element(SEL, SRC2, SRC1)
DEST[MAXVL\-1:128] ← 0

.fi
.RE

.SS VPINSRQ (VEX/EVEX encoded version)
.PP
.RS

.nf
SEL ← imm8[0]
DEST[127:0]←write\_q\_element(SEL, SRC2, SRC1)
DEST[MAXVL\-1:128] ← 0

.fi
.RE

.SH INTEL C/C++ COMPILER INTRINSIC EQUIVALENT
.PP
.RS

.nf
PINSRB: \_\_m128i \_mm\_insert\_epi8 (\_\_m128i s1, int s2, const int ndx);

PINSRD: \_\_m128i \_mm\_insert\_epi32 (\_\_m128i s2, int s, const int ndx);

PINSRQ: \_\_m128i \_mm\_insert\_epi64(\_\_m128i s2, \_\_int64 s, const int ndx);

.fi
.RE

.SH FLAGS AFFECTED
.PP
None.

.SH SIMD FLOATING\-POINT EXCEPTIONS
.PP
None.

.SH OTHER EXCEPTIONS
.PP
EVEX\-encoded instruction, see Exceptions Type 5;

.PP
EVEX\-encoded instruction, see Exceptions Type E9NF.

.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#UD	If VEX.L = 1 or EVEX.L’L 
\&gt;
 0.
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
