.nh
.TH "X86-DIVSD" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
DIVSD - DIVIDE SCALAR DOUBLE-PRECISION FLOATING-POINT VALUE
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode/Instruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64/32 bit Mode Support\fR	\fB\fCCPUID Feature Flag\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
T{
F2 0F 5E /r DIVSD xmm1, xmm2/m64
T}
	A	V/V	SSE2	T{
Divide low double\-precision floating\-point value in xmm1 by low double\-precision floating\-point value in xmm2/m64.
T}
T{
VEX.LIG.F2.0F.WIG 5E /r VDIVSD xmm1, xmm2, xmm3/m64
T}
	B	V/V	AVX	T{
Divide low double\-precision floating\-point value in xmm2 by low double\-precision floating\-point value in xmm3/m64.
T}
T{
EVEX.LIG.F2.0F.W1 5E /r VDIVSD xmm1 {k1}{z}, xmm2, xmm3/m64{er}
T}
	C	V/V	AVX512F	T{
Divide low double\-precision floating\-point value in xmm2 by low double\-precision floating\-point value in xmm3/m64.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
Op/En	Tuple Type	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
A	NA	ModRM:reg (r, w)	ModRM:r/m (r)	NA	NA
B	NA	ModRM:reg (w)	VEX.vvvv	ModRM:r/m (r)	NA
C	Tuple1 Scalar	ModRM:reg (w)	EVEX.vvvv	ModRM:r/m (r)	NA
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Divides the low double\-precision floating\-point value in the first
source operand by the low double\-precision floating\-point value in the
second source operand, and stores the double\-precision floating\-point
result in the destination operand. The second source operand can be an
XMM register or a 64\-bit memory location. The first source and
destination are XMM registers.

.PP
128\-bit Legacy SSE version: The first source operand and the destination
operand are the same. Bits (MAXVL\-1:64) of the corresponding ZMM
destination register remain unchanged.

.PP
VEX.128 encoded version: The first source operand is an xmm register
encoded by VEX.vvvv. The quadword at bits 127:64 of the destination
operand is copied from the corresponding quadword of the first source
operand. Bits (MAXVL\-1:128) of the destination register are zeroed.

.PP
EVEX.128 encoded version: The first source operand is an xmm register
encoded by EVEX.vvvv. The quadword element of the destination operand at
bits 127:64 are copied from the first source operand. Bits (MAXVL\-1:128)
of the destination register are zeroed.

.PP
EVEX version: The low quadword element of the destination is updated
according to the writemask.

.PP
Software should ensure VDIVSD is encoded with VEX.L=0. Encoding VDIVSD
with VEX.L=1 may encounter unpredictable behavior across different
processor generations.

.SH OPERATION
.SS VDIVSD (EVEX encoded version)
.PP
.RS

.nf
IF (EVEX.b = 1) AND SRC2 *is a register*
    THEN
        SET\_RM(EVEX.RC);
    ELSE
        SET\_RM(MXCSR.RM);
FI;
IF k1[0] or *no writemask*
    THEN DEST[63:0]←SRC1[63:0] / SRC2[63:0]
    ELSE
        IF *merging\-masking* ; merging\-masking
            THEN *DEST[63:0] remains unchanged*
            ELSE ; zeroing\-masking
                THEN DEST[63:0]←0
        FI;
FI;
DEST[127:64] ← SRC1[127:64]
DEST[MAXVL\-1:128] ← 0

.fi
.RE

.SS VDIVSD (VEX.128 encoded version)
.PP
.RS

.nf
DEST[63:0]←SRC1[63:0] / SRC2[63:0]
DEST[127:64] ←SRC1[127:64]
DEST[MAXVL\-1:128] ←0

.fi
.RE

.SS DIVSD (128\-bit Legacy SSE version)
.PP
.RS

.nf
DEST[63:0]←DEST[63:0] / SRC[63:0]
DEST[MAXVL\-1:64] (Unmodified)

.fi
.RE

.SH INTEL C/C++ COMPILER INTRINSIC EQUIVALENT
.PP
.RS

.nf
VDIVSD \_\_m128d \_mm\_mask\_div\_sd(\_\_m128d s, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m128d a, \_\_m128d b);

VDIVSD \_\_m128d \_mm\_maskz\_div\_sd( \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m128d a, \_\_m128d b);

VDIVSD \_\_m128d \_mm\_div\_round\_sd( \_\_m128d a, \_\_m128d b, int);

VDIVSD \_\_m128d \_mm\_mask\_div\_round\_sd(\_\_m128d s, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m128d a, \_\_m128d b, int);

VDIVSD \_\_m128d \_mm\_maskz\_div\_round\_sd( \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m128d a, \_\_m128d b, int);

DIVSD \_\_m128d \_mm\_div\_sd (\_\_m128d a, \_\_m128d b);

.fi
.RE

.SH SIMD FLOATING\-POINT EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Overflow, Underflow, Invalid, Divide\-by\-Zero, Precision, Denormal

.SH OTHER EXCEPTIONS
.PP
VEX\-encoded instructions, see Exceptions Type 3.

.PP
EVEX\-encoded instructions, see Exceptions Type E3.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
