.nh
.TH "X86-FPREM" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
FPREM - PARTIAL REMAINDER
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode\fR	\fB\fCInstruction\fR	\fB\fC64\-Bit Mode\fR	\fB\fCCompat/Leg Mode\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
D9 F8	FPREM	Valid	Valid	T{
Replace ST(0) with the remainder obtained from dividing ST(0) by ST(1).
T}
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Computes the remainder obtained from dividing the value in the ST(0)
register (the dividend) by the value in the ST(1) register (the divisor
or modulus), and stores the result in ST(0). The remainder represents
the following value:

.PP
Remainder ← ST(0) − (Q ∗ ST(1))

.PP
Here, Q is an integer value that is obtained by truncating the
floating\-point number quotient of [ST(0) / ST(1)] toward zero. The
sign of the remainder is the same as the sign of the dividend. The
magnitude of the remainder is less than that of the modulus, unless a
partial remainder was computed (as described below).

.PP
This instruction produces an exact result; the inexact\-result exception
does not occur and the rounding control has no effect. The following
table shows the results obtained when computing the remainder of various
classes of numbers, assuming that underflow does not occur.

.PP
ST(1)

.PP
ST(0)

.PP
\-∞

.PP
\-F

.PP
\-0

.PP
+0

.PP
+F

.PP
+∞

.PP
NaN

.PP
\-∞

.PP
*

.PP
*

.PP
*

.PP
*

.PP
*

.PP
*

.PP
NaN

.PP
\-F

.PP
ST(0)

.PP
\-F or \-0

.PP
**

.PP
**

.PP
\-F or \-0

.PP
ST(0)

.PP
NaN

.PP
\-0

.PP
\-0

.PP
\-0

.PP
*

.PP
*

.PP
\-0

.PP
\-0

.PP
NaN

.PP
+0

.PP
+0

.PP
+0

.PP
*

.PP
*

.PP
+0

.PP
+0

.PP
NaN

.PP
+F

.PP
ST(0)

.PP
+F or +0

.PP
**

.PP
**

.PP
+F or +0

.PP
ST(0)

.PP
NaN

.PP
+∞

.PP
*

.PP
*

.PP
*

.PP
*

.PP
*

.PP
*

.PP
NaN

.PP
NaN

.PP
NaN

.PP
NaN

.PP
NaN

.PP
NaN

.PP
NaN

.PP
NaN

.PP
NaN

.PP
Table 3\-31. FPREM Results

.PP
.RS

.PP
F Means finite floating\-point value.

.PP
* Indicatesfloating\-pointinvalid\-arithmetic\-operand(#IA)exception.

.PP
** Indicates floating\-point zero\-divide (#Z) exception.

.RE

.PP
When the result is 0, its sign is the same as that of the dividend. When
the modulus is ∞, the result is equal to the value in ST(0).

.PP
The FPREM instruction does not compute the remainder specified in IEEE
Std 754. The IEEE specified remainder can be computed with the FPREM1
instruction. The FPREM instruction is provided for compatibility with
the Intel 8087 and Intel287 math coprocessors.

.PP
The FPREM instruction gets its name “partial remainder” because of the
way it computes the remainder. This instruction arrives at a remainder
through iterative subtraction. It can, however, reduce the exponent of
ST(0) by no more than 63 in one execution of the instruction. If the
instruction succeeds in producing a remainder that is less than the
modulus, the operation is complete and the C2 flag in the FPU status
word is cleared. Otherwise, C2 is set, and the result in ST(0) is called
the partial remainder. The exponent of the partial remainder will be
less than the exponent of the original dividend by at least 32. Software
can re\-execute the instruction (using the partial remainder in ST(0) as
the dividend) until C2 is cleared. (Note that while executing such a
remainder\-computation loop, a higher\-priority interrupting routine that
needs the FPU can force a context switch in\-between the instructions in
the loop.)

.PP
An important use of the FPREM instruction is to reduce the arguments of
periodic functions. When reduction is complete, the instruction stores
the three least\-significant bits of the quotient in the C3, C1, and C0
flags of the FPU

.PP
status word. This information is important in argument reduction for the
tangent function (using a modulus of π/4), because it locates the
original angle in the correct one of eight sectors of the unit circle.

.PP
This instruction’s operation is the same in non\-64\-bit modes and 64\-bit
mode.

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
D ← exponent(ST(0)) – exponent(ST(1));
IF D < 64
    THEN
        Q ← Integer(TruncateTowardZero(ST(0) / ST(1)));
        ST(0) ← ST(0) – (ST(1) ∗ Q);
        C2 ← 0;
        C0, C3, C1 ← LeastSignificantBits(Q); (* Q2, Q1, Q0 *)
    ELSE
        C2 ← 1;
        N ← An implementation\-dependent number between 32 and 63;
        QQ ← Integer(TruncateTowardZero((ST(0) / ST(1)) / 2(D − N)));
        ST(0) ← ST(0) – (ST(1) ∗ QQ ∗ 2(D − N));
FI;

.fi
.RE

.SH FPU FLAGS AFFECTED
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
C0	T{
Set to bit 2 (Q2) of the quotient.
T}
C1	T{
Set to 0 if stack underflow occurred; otherwise, set to least significant bit of quotient (Q0).
T}
C2	T{
Set to 0 if reduction complete; set to 1 if incomplete.
T}
C3	T{
Set to bit 1 (Q1) of the quotient.
T}
.TE

.SH FLOATING\-POINT EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#IS	Stack underflow occurred.
#IA	T{
Source operand is an SNaN value, modulus is 0, dividend is ∞, or unsupported format.
T}
#D	T{
Source operand is a denormal value.
T}
#U	T{
Result is too small for destination format.
T}
.TE

.SH PROTECTED MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#NM	CR0.EM
[
bit 2
]
 or CR0.TS
[
bit 3
]
 = 1.
#MF	T{
If there is a pending x87 FPU exception.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH REAL\-ADDRESS MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH VIRTUAL\-8086 MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH COMPATIBILITY MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH 64\-BIT MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
