.nh
.TH "X86-VCVTPD2UDQ" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
VCVTPD2UDQ - CONVERT PACKED DOUBLE-PRECISION FLOATING-POINT VALUES TO PACKED UNSIGNED DOUBLEWORD INTEGERS
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode Instruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64/32 bit Mode Support\fR	\fB\fCCPUID Feature Flag\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
T{
EVEX.128.0F.W1 79 /r VCVTPD2UDQ xmm1 {k1}{z}, xmm2/m128/m64bcst
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512F	T{
Convert two packed double\-precision floating\-point values in xmm2/m128/m64bcst to two unsigned doubleword integers in xmm1 subject to writemask k1.
T}
T{
EVEX.256.0F.W1 79 /r VCVTPD2UDQ xmm1 {k1}{z}, ymm2/m256/m64bcst
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512F	T{
Convert four packed double\-precision floating\-point values in ymm2/m256/m64bcst to four unsigned doubleword integers in xmm1 subject to writemask k1.
T}
T{
EVEX.512.0F.W1 79 /r VCVTPD2UDQ ymm1 {k1}{z}, zmm2/m512/m64bcst{er}
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512F	T{
Convert eight packed double\-precision floating\-point values in zmm2/m512/m64bcst to eight unsigned doubleword integers in ymm1 subject to writemask k1.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
Op/En	Tuple Type	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
A	Full	ModRM:reg (w)	ModRM:r/m (r)	NA	NA
.TE

.SS Description
.PP
Converts packed double\-precision floating\-point values in the source
operand (the second operand) to packed unsigned doubleword integers in
the destination operand (the first operand).

.PP
When a conversion is inexact, the value returned is rounded according to
the rounding control bits in the MXCSR register or the embedded rounding
control bits. If a converted result cannot be represented in the
destination format, the floating\-point invalid exception is raised, and
if this exception is masked, the integer value 2w – 1 is returned, where
w represents the number of bits in the destination format.

.PP
The source operand is a ZMM/YMM/XMM register, a 512/256/128\-bit memory
location, or a 512/256/128\-bit vector broadcasted from a 64\-bit memory
location. The destination operand is a ZMM/YMM/XMM register
conditionally updated with writemask k1. The upper bits (MAXVL\-1:256) of
the corresponding destination are zeroed.

.PP
EVEX.vvvv is reserved and must be 1111b otherwise instructions will
#UD.

.SS Operation
.SS VCVTPD2UDQ (EVEX encoded versions) when src2 operand is a register
.PP
.RS

.nf
(KL, VL) = (2, 128), (4, 256), (8, 512)
IF (VL = 512) AND (EVEX.b = 1)
    THEN
        SET\_RM(EVEX.RC);
    ELSE
        SET\_RM(MXCSR.RM);
FI;
FOR j←0 TO KL\-1
    i←j * 32
    k←j * 64
    IF k1[j] OR *no writemask*
        THEN
            DEST[i+31:i] ←
            Convert\_Double\_Precision\_Floating\_Point\_To\_UInteger(SRC[k+63:k])
        ELSE
            IF *merging\-masking* ; merging\-masking
                THEN *DEST[i+31:i] remains unchanged*
                ELSE ; zeroing\-masking
                    DEST[i+31:i] ← 0
            FI
    FI;
ENDFOR
DEST[MAXVL\-1:VL/2] ← 0

.fi
.RE

.SS VCVTPD2UDQ (EVEX encoded versions) when src operand is a memory source
.PP
.RS

.nf
(KL, VL) = (2, 128), (4, 256), (8, 512)
FOR j←0 TO KL\-1
    i←j * 32
    k←j * 64
    IF k1[j] OR *no writemask*
        THEN
            IF (EVEX.b = 1)
                THEN
                    DEST[i+31:i] ←
            Convert\_Double\_Precision\_Floating\_Point\_To\_UInteger(SRC[63:0])
                ELSE
                    DEST[i+31:i] ←
            Convert\_Double\_Precision\_Floating\_Point\_To\_UInteger(SRC[k+63:k])
            FI;
        ELSE
            IF *merging\-masking* ; merging\-masking
                THEN *DEST[i+31:i] remains unchanged*
                ELSE ; zeroing\-masking
                    DEST[i+31:i] ← 0
            FI
    FI;
ENDFOR
DEST[MAXVL\-1:VL/2] ← 0

.fi
.RE

.SS Intel C/C++ Compiler Intrinsic Equivalent
.PP
.RS

.nf
VCVTPD2UDQ \_\_m256i \_mm512\_cvtpd\_epu32( \_\_m512d a);

VCVTPD2UDQ \_\_m256i \_mm512\_mask\_cvtpd\_epu32( \_\_m256i s, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m512d a);

VCVTPD2UDQ \_\_m256i \_mm512\_maskz\_cvtpd\_epu32( \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m512d a);

VCVTPD2UDQ \_\_m256i \_mm512\_cvt\_roundpd\_epu32( \_\_m512d a, int r);

VCVTPD2UDQ \_\_m256i \_mm512\_mask\_cvt\_roundpd\_epu32( \_\_m256i s, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m512d a, int r);

VCVTPD2UDQ \_\_m256i \_mm512\_maskz\_cvt\_roundpd\_epu32( \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m512d a, int r);

VCVTPD2UDQ \_\_m128i \_mm256\_mask\_cvtpd\_epu32( \_\_m128i s, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m256d a);

VCVTPD2UDQ \_\_m128i \_mm256\_maskz\_cvtpd\_epu32( \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m256d a);

VCVTPD2UDQ \_\_m128i \_mm\_mask\_cvtpd\_epu32( \_\_m128i s, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m128d a);

VCVTPD2UDQ \_\_m128i \_mm\_maskz\_cvtpd\_epu32( \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m128d a);

.fi
.RE

.SS SIMD Floating\-Point Exceptions
.PP
Invalid, Precision

.SS Other Exceptions
.PP
EVEX\-encoded instructions, see Exceptions Type E2.

.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#UD	If EVEX.vvvv != 1111B.
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
