.nh
.TH "X86-NOT" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
NOT - ONE'S COMPLEMENT NEGATION
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode\fR	\fB\fCInstruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64\-Bit Mode\fR	\fB\fCCompat/Leg Mode\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
F6 /2	NOT r/m8	M	Valid	Valid	Reverse each bit of r/m8.
REX + F6 /2	NOT r/m8*	M	Valid	N.E.	Reverse each bit of r/m8.
F7 /2	NOT r/m16	M	Valid	Valid	Reverse each bit of r/m16.
F7 /2	NOT r/m32	M	Valid	Valid	Reverse each bit of r/m32.
REX.W + F7 /2	NOT r/m64	M	Valid	N.E.	Reverse each bit of r/m64.
.TE

.PP
.RS

.PP
*
In64\-bitmode,r/m8cannotbeencodedtoaccessthefollowingbyteregistersifaREXprefixisused:AH,BH,CH,DH.

.RE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
Op/En	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
M	ModRM:r/m (r, w)	NA	NA	NA
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Performs a bitwise NOT operation (each 1 is set to 0, and each 0 is set
to 1) on the destination operand and stores the result in the
destination operand location. The destination operand can be a register
or a memory location.

.PP
This instruction can be used with a LOCK prefix to allow the instruction
to be executed atomically.

.PP
In 64\-bit mode, the instruction’s default operation size is 32 bits.
Using a REX prefix in the form of REX.R permits access to additional
registers (R8\-R15). Using a REX prefix in the form of REX.W promotes
operation to 64 bits. See the summary chart at the beginning of this
section for encoding data and limits.

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
DEST ← NOT DEST;

.fi
.RE

.SH FLAGS AFFECTED
.PP
None

.SH PROTECTED MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If the destination operand points to a non\-writable segment.
T}
	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
	T{
If the DS, ES, FS, or GS register contains a NULL segment selector.
T}
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made while the current privilege level is 3.
T}
#UD	T{
If the LOCK prefix is used but the destination is not a memory operand.
T}
.TE

.SH REAL\-ADDRESS MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
#SS	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#UD	T{
If the LOCK prefix is used but the destination is not a memory operand.
T}
.TE

.SH VIRTUAL\-8086 MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
T}
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made.
T}
#UD	T{
If the LOCK prefix is used but the destination is not a memory operand.
T}
.TE

.SH COMPATIBILITY MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same as for protected mode exceptions.

.SH 64\-BIT MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#SS(0)	T{
If a memory address referencing the SS segment is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#GP(0)	T{
If the memory address is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made while the current privilege level is 3.
T}
#UD	T{
If the LOCK prefix is used but the destination is not a memory operand.
T}
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
