.nh
.TH "X86-VSCALEFPS" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
VSCALEFPS - SCALE PACKED FLOAT32 VALUES WITH FLOAT32 VALUES
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode/Instruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64/32 bit Mode Support\fR	\fB\fCCPUID Feature Flag\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
T{
EVEX.128.66.0F38.W0 2C /r VSCALEFPS xmm1 {k1}{z}, xmm2, xmm3/m128/m32bcst
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512F	T{
Scale the packed single\-precision floating\-point values in xmm2 using values from xmm3/m128/m32bcst. Under writemask k1.
T}
T{
EVEX.256.66.0F38.W0 2C /r VSCALEFPS ymm1 {k1}{z}, ymm2, ymm3/m256/m32bcst
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512F	T{
Scale the packed single\-precision values in ymm2 using floating point values from ymm3/m256/m32bcst. Under writemask k1.
T}
T{
EVEX.512.66.0F38.W0 2C /r VSCALEFPS zmm1 {k1}{z}, zmm2, zmm3/m512/m32bcst{er}
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512F	T{
Scale the packed single\-precision floating\-point values in zmm2 using floating\-point values from zmm3/m512/m32bcst. Under writemask k1.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
Op/En	Tuple Type	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
A	Full	ModRM:reg (w)	EVEX.vvvv (r)	ModRM:r/m (r)	NA
.TE

.SS Description
.PP
Performs a floating\-point scale of the packed single\-precision
floating\-point values in the first source operand by multiplying it by 2
power of the float32 values in second source operand.

.PP
The equation of this operation is given by:

.PP
zmm1 := zmm2*2floor(zmm3).

.PP
Floor(zmm3) means maximum integer value ≤ zmm3.

.PP
If the result cannot be represented in single precision, then the proper
overflow response (for positive scaling operand), or the proper
underflow response (for negative scaling operand) is issued. The
overflow and underflow responses are dependent on the rounding mode (for
IEEE\-compliant rounding), as well as on other settings in MXCSR
(exception mask bits, FTZ bit), and on the SAE bit.

.PP
EVEX.512 encoded version: The first source operand is a ZMM register.
The second source operand is a ZMM register, a 512\-bit memory location
or a 512\-bit vector broadcasted from a 32\-bit memory location. The
destination operand is a ZMM register conditionally updated with
writemask k1.

.PP
EVEX.256 encoded version: The first source operand is a YMM register.
The second source operand is a YMM register, a 256\-bit memory location,
or a 256\-bit vector broadcasted from a 32\-bit memory location. The
destination operand is a YMM register, conditionally updated using
writemask k1.

.PP
EVEX.128 encoded version: The first source operand is an XMM register.
The second source operand is a XMM register, a 128\-bit memory location,
or a 128\-bit vector broadcasted from a 32\-bit memory location. The
destination operand is a XMM register, conditionally updated using
writemask k1.

.PP
Handling of special\-case input values are listed in Table 5\-32.

.TS
allbox;
l l l 
l l l .
\fB\fCSpecial Case\fR	\fB\fCReturned value\fR	\fB\fCFaults\fR
|result| \&lt; 2\-149	T{
±0 or ±Min\-Denormal (Src1 sign)
T}
	Underflow
|result| ≥ 2128	T{
±INF (Src1 sign) or ±Max\-normal (Src1 sign)
T}
	Overflow
.TE

.PP
Table 5\-32. Additional VSCALEFPS/SS Special Cases

.SS Operation
.PP
.RS

.nf
SCALE(SRC1, SRC2)
{ ; Check for denormal operands
TMP\_SRC2 ← SRC2
TMP\_SRC1 ← SRC1
IF (SRC2 is denormal AND MXCSR.DAZ) THEN TMP\_SRC2=0
IF (SRC1 is denormal AND MXCSR.DAZ) THEN TMP\_SRC1=0
/* SRC2 is a 32 bits floating\-point value */
DEST[31:0]←TMP\_SRC1[31:0] * POW(2, Floor(TMP\_SRC2[31:0]))
}

.fi
.RE

.SS VSCALEFPS (EVEX encoded versions)
.PP
.RS

.nf
(KL, VL) = (4, 128), (8, 256), (16, 512)
IF (VL = 512) AND (EVEX.b = 1) AND (SRC2 *is register*)
    THEN
        SET\_RM(EVEX.RC);
    ELSE
        SET\_RM(MXCSR.RM);
FI;
FOR j←0 TO KL\-1
    i←j * 32
    IF k1[j] OR *no writemask* THEN
            IF (EVEX.b = 1) AND (SRC2 *is memory*)
                THEN DEST[i+31:i]←SCALE(SRC1[i+31:i], SRC2[31:0]);
                ELSE DEST[i+31:i]←SCALE(SRC1[i+31:i], SRC2[i+31:i]);
            FI;
        ELSE
            IF *merging\-masking* ; merging\-masking
                THEN *DEST[i+31:i] remains unchanged*
                ELSE ; zeroing\-masking
                    DEST[i+31:i] ← 0
            FI
    FI;
ENDFOR
DEST[MAXVL\-1:VL] ← 0;

.fi
.RE

.SS Intel C/C++ Compiler Intrinsic Equivalent
.PP
.RS

.nf
VSCALEFPS \_\_m512 \_mm512\_scalef\_round\_ps(\_\_m512 a, \_\_m512 b, int rounding);

VSCALEFPS \_\_m512 \_mm512\_mask\_scalef\_round\_ps(\_\_m512 s, \_\_mmask16 k, \_\_m512 a, \_\_m512 b, int rounding);

VSCALEFPS \_\_m512 \_mm512\_maskz\_scalef\_round\_ps(\_\_mmask16 k, \_\_m512 a, \_\_m512 b, int rounding);

VSCALEFPS \_\_m512 \_mm512\_scalef\_ps(\_\_m512 a, \_\_m512 b);

VSCALEFPS \_\_m512 \_mm512\_mask\_scalef\_ps(\_\_m512 s, \_\_mmask16 k, \_\_m512 a, \_\_m512 b);

VSCALEFPS \_\_m512 \_mm512\_maskz\_scalef\_ps(\_\_mmask16 k, \_\_m512 a, \_\_m512 b);

VSCALEFPS \_\_m256 \_mm256\_scalef\_ps(\_\_m256 a, \_\_m256 b);

VSCALEFPS \_\_m256 \_mm256\_mask\_scalef\_ps(\_\_m256 s, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m256 a, \_\_m256 b);

VSCALEFPS \_\_m256 \_mm256\_maskz\_scalef\_ps(\_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m256 a, \_\_m256 b);

VSCALEFPS \_\_m128 \_mm\_scalef\_ps(\_\_m128 a, \_\_m128 b);

VSCALEFPS \_\_m128 \_mm\_mask\_scalef\_ps(\_\_m128 s, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m128 a, \_\_m128 b);

VSCALEFPS \_\_m128 \_mm\_maskz\_scalef\_ps(\_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m128 a, \_\_m128 b);

.fi
.RE

.SS SIMD Floating\-Point Exceptions
.PP
Overflow, Underflow, Invalid, Precision, Denormal (for Src1).

.PP
Denormal is not reported for Src2.

.SS Other Exceptions
.PP
See Exceptions Type E2.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
