.nh
.TH "X86-CMPSD" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
CMPSD - COMPARE SCALAR DOUBLE-PRECISION FLOATING-POINT VALUE
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode/Instruction\fR	\fB\fCOp / En\fR	\fB\fC64/32 bit Mode Support\fR	\fB\fCCPUID Feature Flag\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
T{
F2 0F C2 /r ib CMPSD xmm1, xmm2/m64, imm8
T}
	A	V/V	SSE2	T{
Compare low double\-precision floating\-point value in xmm2/m64 and xmm1 using bits 2:0 of imm8 as comparison predicate.
T}
T{
VEX.LIG.F2.0F.WIG C2 /r ib VCMPSD xmm1, xmm2, xmm3/m64, imm8
T}
	B	V/V	AVX	T{
Compare low double\-precision floating\-point value in xmm3/m64 and xmm2 using bits 4:0 of imm8 as comparison predicate.
T}
T{
EVEX.LIG.F2.0F.W1 C2 /r ib VCMPSD k1 {k2}, xmm2, xmm3/m64{sae}, imm8
T}
	C	V/V	AVX512F	T{
Compare low double\-precision floating\-point value in xmm3/m64 and xmm2 using bits 4:0 of imm8 as comparison predicate with writemask k2 and leave the result in mask register k1.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
Op/En	Tuple Type	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
A	NA	ModRM:reg (r, w)	ModRM:r/m (r)	Imm8	NA
B	NA	ModRM:reg (w)	VEX.vvvv	ModRM:r/m (r)	Imm8
C	Tuple1 Scalar	ModRM:reg (w)	EVEX.vvvv	ModRM:r/m (r)	Imm8
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Compares the low double\-precision floating\-point values in the second
source operand and the first source operand and returns the results in
of the comparison to the destination operand. The comparison predicate
operand (immediate operand) specifies the type of comparison performed.

.PP
128\-bit Legacy SSE version: The first source and destination operand
(first operand) is an XMM register. The second source operand (second
operand) can be an XMM register or 64\-bit memory location. Bits
(MAXVL\-1:64) of the corresponding YMM destination register remain
unchanged. The comparison result is a quadword mask of all 1s
(comparison true) or all 0s (comparison false).

.PP
VEX.128 encoded version: The first source operand (second operand) is an
XMM register. The second source operand (third operand) can be an XMM
register or a 64\-bit memory location. The result is stored in the low
quadword of the destination operand; the high quadword is filled with
the contents of the high quadword of the first source operand. Bits
(MAXVL\-1:128) of the destination ZMM register are zeroed. The comparison
result is a quadword mask of all 1s (comparison true) or all 0s
(comparison false).

.PP
EVEX encoded version: The first source operand (second operand) is an
XMM register. The second source operand can be a XMM register or a
64\-bit memory location. The destination operand (first operand) is an
opmask register. The comparison result is a single mask bit of 1
(comparison true) or 0 (comparison false), written to the destination
starting from the LSB according to the writemask k2. Bits
(MAX\_KL\-1:128) of the destination register are cleared.

.PP
The comparison predicate operand is an 8\-bit immediate:

.RS
.IP \(bu 2
For instructions encoded using the VEX prefix, bits 4:0 define the
type of comparison to be performed (see Table 3\-1). Bits 5 through 7
of the immediate are reserved.
.IP \(bu 2
For instruction encodings that do not use VEX prefix, bits 2:0
define the type of comparison to be made (see the first 8 rows of
Table 3\-1). Bits 3 through 7 of the immediate are reserved.

.RE

.PP
The unordered relationship is true when at least one of the two source
operands being compared is a NaN; the ordered relationship is true when
neither source operand is a NaN.

.PP
A subsequent computational instruction that uses the mask result in the
destination operand as an input operand will not generate an exception,
because a mask of all 0s corresponds to a floating\-point value of +0.0
and a mask of all 1s corresponds to a QNaN.

.PP
Note that processors with “CPUID.1H:ECX.AVX =0” do not implement the
“greater\-than”, “greater\-than\-or\-equal”, “not\-greater than”, and
“not\-greater\-than\-or\-equal relations” predicates. These comparisons can
be made either by using the inverse relationship (that is, use the
“not\-less\-than\-or\-equal” to make a “greater\-than” comparison)

.PP
or by using software emulation. When using software emulation, the
program must swap the operands (copying registers when necessary to
protect the data that will now be in the destination), and then perform
the compare using a different predicate. The predicate to be used for
these emulations is listed in the first 8 rows of Table 3\-7 (Intel 64
and IA\-32 Architectures Software Developer’s Manual Volume 2A) under the
heading Emulation.

.PP
Compilers and assemblers may implement the following two\-operand
pseudo\-ops in addition to the three\-operand CMPSD instruction, for
processors with “CPUID.1H:ECX.AVX =0”. See Table 3\-6. Compiler should
treat reserved Imm8 values as illegal syntax.

.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
\fB\fCPseudo\-Op\fR	\fB\fCCMPSD Implementation\fR
CMPEQSD xmm1, xmm2	CMPSD xmm1, xmm2, 0
CMPLTSD xmm1, xmm2	CMPSD xmm1, xmm2, 1
CMPLESD xmm1, xmm2	CMPSD xmm1, xmm2, 2
CMPUNORDSD xmm1, xmm2	CMPSD xmm1, xmm2, 3
CMPNEQSD xmm1, xmm2	CMPSD xmm1, xmm2, 4
CMPNLTSD xmm1, xmm2	CMPSD xmm1, xmm2, 5
CMPNLESD xmm1, xmm2	CMPSD xmm1, xmm2, 6
CMPORDSD xmm1, xmm2	CMPSD xmm1, xmm2, 7
.TE

.PP
Table 3\-6. Pseudo\-Op and CMPSD Implementation

.PP
The greater\-than relations that the processor does not implement require
more than one instruction to emulate in software and therefore should
not be implemented as pseudo\-ops. (For these, the programmer should
reverse the operands of the corresponding less than relations and use
move instructions to ensure that the mask is moved to the correct
destination register and that the source operand is left intact.)

.PP
Processors with “CPUID.1H:ECX.AVX =1” implement the full complement of
32 predicates shown in Table 3\-7.

.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
\fB\fCPseudo\-Op\fR	\fB\fCCMPSD Implementation\fR
VCMPEQSD reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSD reg1, reg2, reg3, 0
VCMPLTSD reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSD reg1, reg2, reg3, 1
VCMPLESD reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSD reg1, reg2, reg3, 2
VCMPUNORDSD reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSD reg1, reg2, reg3, 3
VCMPNEQSD reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSD reg1, reg2, reg3, 4
VCMPNLTSD reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSD reg1, reg2, reg3, 5
VCMPNLESD reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSD reg1, reg2, reg3, 6
VCMPORDSD reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSD reg1, reg2, reg3, 7
VCMPEQ\_UQSD reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSD reg1, reg2, reg3, 8
VCMPNGESD reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSD reg1, reg2, reg3, 9
VCMPNGTSD reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSD reg1, reg2, reg3, 0AH
VCMPFALSESD reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSD reg1, reg2, reg3, 0BH
VCMPNEQ\_OQSD reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSD reg1, reg2, reg3, 0CH
VCMPGESD reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSD reg1, reg2, reg3, 0DH
.TE

.PP
Table 3\-7. Pseudo\-Op and VCMPSD Implementation

.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
\fB\fCPseudo\-Op\fR	\fB\fCCMPSD Implementation\fR
VCMPGTSD reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSD reg1, reg2, reg3, 0EH
VCMPTRUESD reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSD reg1, reg2, reg3, 0FH
VCMPEQ\_OSSD reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSD reg1, reg2, reg3, 10H
VCMPLT\_OQSD reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSD reg1, reg2, reg3, 11H
VCMPLE\_OQSD reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSD reg1, reg2, reg3, 12H
VCMPUNORD\_SSD reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSD reg1, reg2, reg3, 13H
VCMPNEQ\_USSD reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSD reg1, reg2, reg3, 14H
VCMPNLT\_UQSD reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSD reg1, reg2, reg3, 15H
VCMPNLE\_UQSD reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSD reg1, reg2, reg3, 16H
VCMPORD\_SSD reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSD reg1, reg2, reg3, 17H
VCMPEQ\_USSD reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSD reg1, reg2, reg3, 18H
VCMPNGE\_UQSD reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSD reg1, reg2, reg3, 19H
VCMPNGT\_UQSD reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSD reg1, reg2, reg3, 1AH
VCMPFALSE\_OSSD reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSD reg1, reg2, reg3, 1BH
VCMPNEQ\_OSSD reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSD reg1, reg2, reg3, 1CH
VCMPGE\_OQSD reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSD reg1, reg2, reg3, 1DH
VCMPGT\_OQSD reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSD reg1, reg2, reg3, 1EH
VCMPTRUE\_USSD reg1, reg2, reg3	VCMPSD reg1, reg2, reg3, 1FH
.TE

.PP
Table 3\-7. Pseudo\-Op and VCMPSD Implementation

.PP
Software should ensure VCMPSD is encoded with VEX.L=0. Encoding VCMPSD
with VEX.L=1 may encounter unpredictable behavior across different
processor generations.

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
CASE (COMPARISON PREDICATE) OF
    0: OP3←EQ\_OQ; OP5←EQ\_OQ;
    1: OP3←LT\_OS; OP5←LT\_OS;
    2: OP3←LE\_OS; OP5←LE\_OS;
    3: OP3←UNORD\_Q; OP5←UNORD\_Q;
    4: OP3←NEQ\_UQ; OP5←NEQ\_UQ;
    5: OP3←NLT\_US; OP5←NLT\_US;
    6: OP3←NLE\_US; OP5←NLE\_US;
    7: OP3←ORD\_Q; OP5←ORD\_Q;
    8: OP5←EQ\_UQ;
    9: OP5←NGE\_US;
    10: OP5←NGT\_US;
    11: OP5←FALSE\_OQ;
    12: OP5←NEQ\_OQ;
    13: OP5←GE\_OS;
    14: OP5←GT\_OS;
    15: OP5←TRUE\_UQ;
    16: OP5←EQ\_OS;
    17: OP5←LT\_OQ;
    18: OP5←LE\_OQ;
    19: OP5←UNORD\_S;
    20: OP5←NEQ\_US;
    21: OP5←NLT\_UQ;
    22: OP5←NLE\_UQ;
    23: OP5←ORD\_S;
    24: OP5←EQ\_US;
    25: OP5←NGE\_UQ;
    26: OP5←NGT\_UQ;
    27: OP5←FALSE\_OS;
    28: OP5←NEQ\_OS;
    29: OP5←GE\_OQ;
    30: OP5←GT\_OQ;
    31: OP5←TRUE\_US;
    DEFAULT: Reserved
ESAC;

.fi
.RE

.SS VCMPSD (EVEX encoded version)
.PP
.RS

.nf
CMP0←SRC1[63:0] OP5 SRC2[63:0];
IF k2[0] or *no writemask*
    THEN IF CMP0 = TRUE
        THEN DEST[0]←1;
        ELSE DEST[0]←0; FI;
    ELSE DEST[0]←0
            ; zeroing\-masking only
FI;
DEST[MAX\_KL\-1:1] ← 0

.fi
.RE

.SS CMPSD (128\-bit Legacy SSE version)
.PP
.RS

.nf
CMP0←DEST[63:0] OP3 SRC[63:0];
IF CMP0 = TRUE
THEN DEST[63:0]←FFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFH;
ELSE DEST[63:0]←0000000000000000H; FI;
DEST[MAXVL\-1:64] (Unmodified)

.fi
.RE

.SS VCMPSD (VEX.128 encoded version)
.PP
.RS

.nf
CMP0←SRC1[63:0] OP5 SRC2[63:0];
IF CMP0 = TRUE
THEN DEST[63:0]←FFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFH;
ELSE DEST[63:0]←0000000000000000H; FI;
DEST[127:64] ←SRC1[127:64]
DEST[MAXVL\-1:128] ←0

.fi
.RE

.SH INTEL C/C++ COMPILER INTRINSIC EQUIVALENT
.PP
.RS

.nf
VCMPSD \_\_mmask8 \_mm\_cmp\_sd\_mask( \_\_m128d a, \_\_m128d b, int imm);

VCMPSD \_\_mmask8 \_mm\_cmp\_round\_sd\_mask( \_\_m128d a, \_\_m128d b, int imm, int sae);

VCMPSD \_\_mmask8 \_mm\_mask\_cmp\_sd\_mask( \_\_mmask8 k1, \_\_m128d a, \_\_m128d b, int imm);

VCMPSD \_\_mmask8 \_mm\_mask\_cmp\_round\_sd\_mask( \_\_mmask8 k1, \_\_m128d a, \_\_m128d b, int imm, int sae);

(V)CMPSD \_\_m128d \_mm\_cmp\_sd(\_\_m128d a, \_\_m128d b, const int imm)

.fi
.RE

.SH SIMD FLOATING\-POINT EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Invalid if SNaN operand, Invalid if QNaN and predicate as listed in
Table 3\-1 Denormal.

.SH OTHER EXCEPTIONS
.PP
VEX\-encoded instructions, see Exceptions Type 3.

.PP
EVEX\-encoded instructions, see Exceptions Type E3.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
