.nh
.TH "X86-LEAVE" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
LEAVE - HIGH LEVEL PROCEDURE EXIT
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode\fR	\fB\fCInstruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64\-Bit Mode\fR	\fB\fCCompat/Leg Mode\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
C9	LEAVE	ZO	Valid	Valid	Set SP to BP, then pop BP.
C9	LEAVE	ZO	N.E.	Valid	Set ESP to EBP, then pop EBP.
C9	LEAVE	ZO	Valid	N.E.	Set RSP to RBP, then pop RBP.
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
Op/En	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
ZO	NA	NA	NA	NA
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Releases the stack frame set up by an earlier ENTER instruction. The
LEAVE instruction copies the frame pointer (in the EBP register) into
the stack pointer register (ESP), which releases the stack space
allocated to the stack frame. The old frame pointer (the frame pointer
for the calling procedure that was saved by the ENTER instruction) is
then popped from the stack into the EBP register, restoring the calling
procedure’s stack frame.

.PP
A RET instruction is commonly executed following a LEAVE instruction to
return program control to the calling procedure.

.PP
See “Procedure Calls for Block\-Structured Languages” in Chapter 7 of the
Intel® 64 and IA\-32 Architectures Software Developer’s Manual, Volume 1,
for detailed information on the use of the ENTER and LEAVE instructions.

.PP
In 64\-bit mode, the instruction’s default operation size is 64 bits;
32\-bit operation cannot be encoded. See the summary chart at the
beginning of this section for encoding data and limits.

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
IF StackAddressSize = 32
    THEN
        ESP ← EBP;
    ELSE IF StackAddressSize = 64
        THEN RSP ← RBP; FI;
    ELSE IF StackAddressSize = 16
        THEN SP ← BP; FI;
FI;
IF OperandSize = 32
    THEN EBP ← Pop();
    ELSE IF OperandSize = 64
        THEN RBP ← Pop(); FI;
    ELSE IF OperandSize = 16
        THEN BP ← Pop(); FI;
FI;

.fi
.RE

.SH FLAGS AFFECTED
.PP
None

.SH PROTECTED MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#SS(0)	T{
If the EBP register points to a location that is not within the limits of the current stack segment.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made while the current privilege level is 3.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH REAL\-ADDRESS MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP	T{
If the EBP register points to a location outside of the effective address space from 0 to FFFFH.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH VIRTUAL\-8086 MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	T{
If the EBP register points to a location outside of the effective address space from 0 to FFFFH.
T}
#PF(fault\-code)	If a page fault occurs.
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH COMPATIBILITY MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH 64\-BIT MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#SS(0)	T{
If the stack address is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#AC(0)	T{
If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made while the current privilege level is 3.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
