.nh
.TH "X86-FABS" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
FABS - ABSOLUTE VALUE
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode\fR	\fB\fCInstruction\fR	\fB\fC64\-Bit Mode\fR	\fB\fCCompat/Leg Mode\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
D9 E1	FABS	Valid	Valid	T{
Replace ST with its absolute value.
T}
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Clears the sign bit of ST(0) to create the absolute value of the
operand. The following table shows the results obtained when creating
the absolute value of various classes of numbers.

.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
\fB\fCST(0) SRC\fR	\fB\fCST(0) DEST\fR
−∞	+∞
−F	+F
−0	+0
+0	+0
+F	+F
+∞	+∞
NaN	NaN
.TE

.PP
Table 3\-17. Results Obtained from FABS

.PP
.RS

.PP
F Meansfinitefloating\-pointvalue.

.RE

.PP
This instruction’s operation is the same in non\-64\-bit modes and 64\-bit
mode.

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
ST(0) ← |ST(0)|;

.fi
.RE

.SH FPU FLAGS AFFECTED
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
C1	Set to 0.
C0, C2, C3	Undefined.
.TE

.SH FLOATING\-POINT EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#IS	Stack underflow occurred.
.TE

.SH PROTECTED MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#NM	CR0.EM
[
bit 2
]
 or CR0.TS
[
bit 3
]
 = 1.
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH REAL\-ADDRESS MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH VIRTUAL\-8086 MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH COMPATIBILITY MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH 64\-BIT MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
