.nh
.TH "X86-CVTSD2SI" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
CVTSD2SI - CONVERT SCALAR DOUBLE-PRECISION FLOATING-POINT VALUE TO DOUBLEWORD INTEGER
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode/Instruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64/32 bit Mode Support\fR	\fB\fCCPUID Feature Flag\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
T{
F2 0F 2D /r CVTSD2SI r32, xmm1/m64
T}
	A	V/V	SSE2	T{
Convert one double\-precision floating\-point value from xmm1/m64 to one signed doubleword integer r32.
T}
T{
F2 REX.W 0F 2D /r CVTSD2SI r64, xmm1/m64
T}
	A	V/N.E.	SSE2	T{
Convert one double\-precision floating\-point value from xmm1/m64 to one signed quadword integer sign\-extended into r64.
T}
T{
VEX.LIG.F2.0F.W0 2D /r 1 VCVTSD2SI r32, xmm1/m64
T}
	A	V/V	AVX	T{
Convert one double\-precision floating\-point value from xmm1/m64 to one signed doubleword integer r32.
T}
T{
VEX.LIG.F2.0F.W1 2D /r 1 VCVTSD2SI r64, xmm1/m64
T}
	A	V/N.E.2	AVX	T{
Convert one double\-precision floating\-point value from xmm1/m64 to one signed quadword integer sign\-extended into r64.
T}
T{
EVEX.LIG.F2.0F.W0 2D /r VCVTSD2SI r32, xmm1/m64{er}
T}
	B	V/V	AVX512F	T{
Convert one double\-precision floating\-point value from xmm1/m64 to one signed doubleword integer r32.
T}
T{
EVEX.LIG.F2.0F.W1 2D /r VCVTSD2SI r64, xmm1/m64{er}
T}
	B	V/N.E.2	AVX512F	T{
Convert one double\-precision floating\-point value from xmm1/m64 to one signed quadword integer sign\-extended into r64.
T}
.TE

.PP
.RS

.PP
1\&. Software should ensure VCVTSD2SI is encoded with VEX.L=0. Encoding
VCVTSD2SI with VEX.L=1 may encounter unpredictable behavior across
different processor generations.

.PP
2\&. VEX.W1/EVEX.W1 in non\-64 bit is ignored; the instructions behaves
as if the W0 version is used.

.RE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
Op/En	Tuple Type	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
A	NA	ModRM:reg (w)	ModRM:r/m (r)	NA	NA
B	Tuple1 Fixed	ModRM:reg (w)	ModRM:r/m (r)	NA	NA
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Converts a double\-precision floating\-point value in the source operand
(the second operand) to a signed double\-word integer in the destination
operand (first operand). The source operand can be an XMM register or a
64\-bit memory location. The destination operand is a general\-purpose
register. When the source operand is an XMM register, the
double\-precision floating\-point value is contained in the low quadword
of the register.

.PP
When a conversion is inexact, the value returned is rounded according to
the rounding control bits in the MXCSR register.

.PP
If a converted result exceeds the range limits of signed doubleword
integer (in non\-64\-bit modes or 64\-bit mode with REX.W/VEX.W/EVEX.W=0),
the floating\-point invalid exception is raised, and if this exception is
masked, the indefinite integer value (80000000H) is returned.

.PP
If a converted result exceeds the range limits of signed quadword
integer (in 64\-bit mode and REX.W/VEX.W/EVEX.W = 1), the floating\-point
invalid exception is raised, and if this exception is masked, the
indefinite integer value (80000000\_00000000H) is returned.

.PP
Legacy SSE instruction: Use of the REX.W prefix promotes the instruction
to produce 64\-bit data in 64\-bit mode. See the summary chart at the
beginning of this section for encoding data and limits.

.PP
Note: VEX.vvvv and EVEX.vvvv are reserved and must be 1111b, otherwise
instructions will #UD.

.PP
Software should ensure VCVTSD2SI is encoded with VEX.L=0. Encoding
VCVTSD2SI with VEX.L=1 may encounter unpredictable behavior across
different processor generations.

.SH OPERATION
.SS VCVTSD2SI (EVEX encoded version)
.PP
.RS

.nf
IF SRC *is register* AND (EVEX.b = 1)
    THEN
        SET\_RM(EVEX.RC);
    ELSE
        SET\_RM(MXCSR.RM);
FI;
IF 64\-Bit Mode and OperandSize = 64
    THEN DEST[63:0] ← Convert\_Double\_Precision\_Floating\_Point\_To\_Integer(SRC[63:0]);
    ELSE DEST[31:0] ← Convert\_Double\_Precision\_Floating\_Point\_To\_Integer(SRC[63:0]);
FI

.fi
.RE

.SS (V)CVTSD2SI
.PP
.RS

.nf
IF 64\-Bit Mode and OperandSize = 64
THEN
    DEST[63:0] ←Convert\_Double\_Precision\_Floating\_Point\_To\_Integer(SRC[63:0]);
ELSE
    DEST[31:0] ←Convert\_Double\_Precision\_Floating\_Point\_To\_Integer(SRC[63:0]);
FI;

.fi
.RE

.SH INTEL C/C++ COMPILER INTRINSIC EQUIVALENT
.PP
.RS

.nf
VCVTSD2SI int \_mm\_cvtsd\_i32(\_\_m128d);

VCVTSD2SI int \_mm\_cvt\_roundsd\_i32(\_\_m128d, int r);

VCVTSD2SI \_\_int64 \_mm\_cvtsd\_i64(\_\_m128d);

VCVTSD2SI \_\_int64 \_mm\_cvt\_roundsd\_i64(\_\_m128d, int r);

CVTSD2SI \_\_int64 \_mm\_cvtsd\_si64(\_\_m128d);

CVTSD2SI int \_mm\_cvtsd\_si32(\_\_m128d a)

.fi
.RE

.SH SIMD FLOATING\-POINT EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Invalid, Precision

.SH OTHER EXCEPTIONS
.PP
VEX\-encoded instructions, see Exceptions Type 3;

.PP
EVEX\-encoded instructions, see Exceptions Type E3NF.

.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#UD	T{
If VEX.vvvv != 1111B or EVEX.vvvv != 1111B.
T}
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
