.nh
.TH "X86-VPSCATTERDD-VPSCATTERDQ-VPSCATTERQD-VPSCATTERQQ" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
VPSCATTERDD-VPSCATTERDQ-VPSCATTERQD-VPSCATTERQQ - SCATTER PACKED DWORD, PACKED QWORD WITH SIGNED DWORD, SIGNED QWORD INDICES
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode/Instruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64/32 bit Mode Support\fR	\fB\fCCPUID Feature Flag\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
T{
EVEX.128.66.0F38.W0 A0 /vsib VPSCATTERDD vm32x {k1}, xmm1
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512F	T{
Using signed dword indices, scatter dword values to memory using writemask k1.
T}
T{
EVEX.256.66.0F38.W0 A0 /vsib VPSCATTERDD vm32y {k1}, ymm1
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512F	T{
Using signed dword indices, scatter dword values to memory using writemask k1.
T}
T{
EVEX.512.66.0F38.W0 A0 /vsib VPSCATTERDD vm32z {k1}, zmm1
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512F	T{
Using signed dword indices, scatter dword values to memory using writemask k1.
T}
T{
EVEX.128.66.0F38.W1 A0 /vsib VPSCATTERDQ vm32x {k1}, xmm1
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512F	T{
Using signed dword indices, scatter qword values to memory using writemask k1.
T}
T{
EVEX.256.66.0F38.W1 A0 /vsib VPSCATTERDQ vm32x {k1}, ymm1
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512F	T{
Using signed dword indices, scatter qword values to memory using writemask k1.
T}
T{
EVEX.512.66.0F38.W1 A0 /vsib VPSCATTERDQ vm32y {k1}, zmm1
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512F	T{
Using signed dword indices, scatter qword values to memory using writemask k1.
T}
T{
EVEX.128.66.0F38.W0 A1 /vsib VPSCATTERQD vm64x {k1}, xmm1
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512F	T{
Using signed qword indices, scatter dword values to memory using writemask k1.
T}
T{
EVEX.256.66.0F38.W0 A1 /vsib VPSCATTERQD vm64y {k1}, xmm1
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512F	T{
Using signed qword indices, scatter dword values to memory using writemask k1.
T}
T{
EVEX.512.66.0F38.W0 A1 /vsib VPSCATTERQD vm64z {k1}, ymm1
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512F	T{
Using signed qword indices, scatter dword values to memory using writemask k1.
T}
T{
EVEX.128.66.0F38.W1 A1 /vsib VPSCATTERQQ vm64x {k1}, xmm1
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512F	T{
Using signed qword indices, scatter qword values to memory using writemask k1.
T}
T{
EVEX.256.66.0F38.W1 A1 /vsib VPSCATTERQQ vm64y {k1}, ymm1
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512VL AVX512F	T{
Using signed qword indices, scatter qword values to memory using writemask k1.
T}
T{
EVEX.512.66.0F38.W1 A1 /vsib VPSCATTERQQ vm64z {k1}, zmm1
T}
	A	V/V	AVX512F	T{
Using signed qword indices, scatter qword values to memory using writemask k1.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
Op/En	Tuple Type	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
A	Tuple1 Scalar	T{
BaseReg (R): VSIB:base, VectorReg(R): VSIB:index
T}
	ModRM:reg (r)	NA	NA
.TE

.SS Description
.PP
Stores up to 16 elements (8 elements for qword indices) in doubleword
vector or 8 elements in quadword vector to the memory locations pointed
by base address BASE\_ADDR and index vector VINDEX, with scale SCALE.
The elements are specified via the VSIB (i.e., the index register is a
vector register, holding packed indices). Elements will only be stored
if their corresponding mask bit is one. The entire mask register will be
set to zero by this instruction unless it triggers an exception.

.PP
This instruction can be suspended by an exception if at least one
element is already scattered (i.e., if the exception is triggered by an
element other than the rightmost one with its mask bit set). When this
happens, the destination register and the mask register are partially
updated. If any traps or interrupts are pending from already scattered
elements, they will be delivered in lieu of the exception; in this case,
EFLAG.RF is set to one so an instruction breakpoint is not re\-triggered
when the instruction is continued.

.PP
Note that:

.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Only writes to overlapping vector indices are guaranteed to be
ordered with respect to each other (from LSB to MSB of the source
registers). Note that this also include partially overlapping vector
indices. Writes that are not overlapped may happen in any order.
Memory ordering with other instructions follows the Intel\-64 memory
ordering model. Note that this does not account for non\-overlapping
indices that map into the same physical address locations.
.IP \(bu 2
If two or more destination indices completely overlap, the “earlier”
write(s) may be skipped.
.IP \(bu 2
Faults are delivered in a right\-to\-left manner. That is, if a fault
is triggered by an element and delivered, all elements closer to the
LSB of the destination ZMM will be completed (and non\-faulting).
Individual elements closer to the MSB may or may not be completed.
If a given element triggers multiple faults, they are delivered in
the conventional order.
.IP \(bu 2
Elements may be scattered in any order, but faults must be delivered
in a right\-to left order; thus, elements to the left of a faulting
one may be gathered before the fault is delivered. A given
implementation of this instruction is repeatable \- given the same
input values and architectural state, the same set of elements to
the left of the faulting one will be gathered.
.IP \(bu 2
This instruction does not perform AC checks, and so will never
deliver an AC fault.
.IP \(bu 2
Not valid with 16\-bit effective addresses. Will deliver a #UD
fault.
.IP \(bu 2
If this instruction overwrites itself and then takes a fault, only a
subset of elements may be completed before the fault is delivered
(as described above). If the fault handler completes and attempts to
re\-execute this instruction, the new instruction will be executed,
and the scatter will not complete.

.RE

.PP
Note that the presence of VSIB byte is enforced in this instruction.
Hence, the instruction will #UD fault if ModRM.rm is different than
100b.

.PP
This instruction has special disp8*N and alignment rules. N is
considered to be the size of a single vector element.

.PP
The scaled index may require more bits to represent than the address
bits used by the processor (e.g., in 32\-bit mode, if the scale is
greater than one). In this case, the most significant bits beyond the
number of address bits are ignored.

.PP
The instruction will #UD fault if the k0 mask register is specified.

.PP
The instruction will #UD fault if EVEX.Z = 1.

.SS Operation
.PP
.RS

.nf
BASE\_ADDR stands for the memory operand base address (a GPR); may not exist
VINDEX stands for the memory operand vector of indices (a ZMM register)
SCALE stands for the memory operand scalar (1, 2, 4 or 8)
DISP is the optional 1 or 4 byte displacement

.fi
.RE

.SS VPSCATTERDD (EVEX encoded versions)
.PP
.RS

.nf
(KL, VL)= (4, 128), (8, 256), (16, 512)
FOR j←0 TO KL\-1
    i←j * 32
    IF k1[j] OR *no writemask*
        THEN MEM[BASE\_ADDR +SignExtend(VINDEX[i+31:i]) * SCALE + DISP]← SRC[i+31:i]
            k1[j] ← 0
    FI;
ENDFOR
k1[MAX\_KL\-1:KL] ← 0

.fi
.RE

.SS VPSCATTERDQ (EVEX encoded versions)
.PP
.RS

.nf
(KL, VL)= (2, 128), (4, 256), (8, 512)
FOR j←0 TO KL\-1
    i←j * 64
    k←j * 32
    IF k1[j] OR *no writemask*
        THEN MEM[BASE\_ADDR +SignExtend(VINDEX[k+31:k]) * SCALE + DISP] ← SRC[i+63:i]
            k1[j] ← 0
    FI;
ENDFOR
k1[MAX\_KL\-1:KL] ← 0

.fi
.RE

.SS VPSCATTERQD (EVEX encoded versions)
.PP
.RS

.nf
(KL, VL)= (2, 128), (4, 256), (8, 512)
FOR j←0 TO KL\-1
    i←j * 32
    k←j * 64
    IF k1[j] OR *no writemask*
        THEN MEM[BASE\_ADDR + (VINDEX[k+63:k]) * SCALE + DISP] ← SRC[i+31:i]
            k1[j] ← 0
    FI;
ENDFOR
k1[MAX\_KL\-1:KL] ← 0

.fi
.RE

.SS VPSCATTERQQ (EVEX encoded versions)
.PP
.RS

.nf
(KL, VL)= (2, 128), (4, 256), (8, 512)
FOR j←0 TO KL\-1
    i←j * 64
    IF k1[j] OR *no writemask*
        THEN MEM[BASE\_ADDR + (VINDEX[j+63:j]) * SCALE + DISP] ← SRC[i+63:i]
    FI;
ENDFOR
k1[MAX\_KL\-1:KL] ← 0

.fi
.RE

.SS Intel C/C++ Compiler Intrinsic Equivalent
.PP
.RS

.nf
VPSCATTERDD void \_mm512\_i32scatter\_epi32(void * base, \_\_m512i vdx, \_\_m512i a, int scale);

VPSCATTERDD void \_mm256\_i32scatter\_epi32(void * base, \_\_m256i vdx, \_\_m256i a, int scale);

VPSCATTERDD void \_mm\_i32scatter\_epi32(void * base, \_\_m128i vdx, \_\_m128i a, int scale);

VPSCATTERDD void \_mm512\_mask\_i32scatter\_epi32(void * base, \_\_mmask16 k, \_\_m512i vdx, \_\_m512i a, int scale);

VPSCATTERDD void \_mm256\_mask\_i32scatter\_epi32(void * base, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m256i vdx, \_\_m256i a, int scale);

VPSCATTERDD void \_mm\_mask\_i32scatter\_epi32(void * base, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m128i vdx, \_\_m128i a, int scale);

VPSCATTERDQ void \_mm512\_i32scatter\_epi64(void * base, \_\_m256i vdx, \_\_m512i a, int scale);

VPSCATTERDQ void \_mm256\_i32scatter\_epi64(void * base, \_\_m128i vdx, \_\_m256i a, int scale);

VPSCATTERDQ void \_mm\_i32scatter\_epi64(void * base, \_\_m128i vdx, \_\_m128i a, int scale);

VPSCATTERDQ void \_mm512\_mask\_i32scatter\_epi64(void * base, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m256i vdx, \_\_m512i a, int scale);

VPSCATTERDQ void \_mm256\_mask\_i32scatter\_epi64(void * base, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m128i vdx, \_\_m256i a, int scale);

VPSCATTERDQ void \_mm\_mask\_i32scatter\_epi64(void * base, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m128i vdx, \_\_m128i a, int scale);

VPSCATTERQD void \_mm512\_i64scatter\_epi32(void * base, \_\_m512i vdx, \_\_m256i a, int scale);

VPSCATTERQD void \_mm256\_i64scatter\_epi32(void * base, \_\_m256i vdx, \_\_m128i a, int scale);

VPSCATTERQD void \_mm\_i64scatter\_epi32(void * base, \_\_m128i vdx, \_\_m128i a, int scale);

VPSCATTERQD void \_mm512\_mask\_i64scatter\_epi32(void * base, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m512i vdx, \_\_m256i a, int scale);

VPSCATTERQD void \_mm256\_mask\_i64scatter\_epi32(void * base, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m256i vdx, \_\_m128i a, int scale);

VPSCATTERQD void \_mm\_mask\_i64scatter\_epi32(void * base, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m128i vdx, \_\_m128i a, int scale);

VPSCATTERQQ void \_mm512\_i64scatter\_epi64(void * base, \_\_m512i vdx, \_\_m512i a, int scale);

VPSCATTERQQ void \_mm256\_i64scatter\_epi64(void * base, \_\_m256i vdx, \_\_m256i a, int scale);

VPSCATTERQQ void \_mm\_i64scatter\_epi64(void * base, \_\_m128i vdx, \_\_m128i a, int scale);

VPSCATTERQQ void \_mm512\_mask\_i64scatter\_epi64(void * base, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m512i vdx, \_\_m512i a, int scale);

VPSCATTERQQ void \_mm256\_mask\_i64scatter\_epi64(void * base, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m256i vdx, \_\_m256i a, int scale);

VPSCATTERQQ void \_mm\_mask\_i64scatter\_epi64(void * base, \_\_mmask8 k, \_\_m128i vdx, \_\_m128i a, int scale);

.fi
.RE

.SS SIMD Floating\-Point Exceptions
.PP
None

.SS Other Exceptions
.PP
See Exceptions Type E12.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
