.nh
.TH "X86-EENTER" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
EENTER - ENTERS AN ENCLAVE
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode/Instruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64/32 bit Mode Support\fR	\fB\fCCPUID Feature Flag\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
EAX = 02H ENCLU[EENTER]	IR	V/V	SGX1	T{
This leaf function is used to enter an enclave.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.PP
Op/En

.PP
EAX

.PP
RBX

.PP
RCX

.PP
IR

.PP
EENTER (In)

.PP
Content of RBX.CSSA (Out)

.PP
Address of a TCS (In)

.PP
Address of AEP (In)

.PP
Address of IP following EENTER (Out)

.SS Description
.PP
The ENCLU[EENTER] instruction transfers execution to an enclave. At
the end of the instruction, the logical processor is executing in
enclave mode at the RIP computed as EnclaveBase + TCS.OENTRY. If the
target address is not within the CS segment (32\-bit) or is not canonical
(64\-bit), a #GP(0) results.

.SH EENTER MEMORY PARAMETER SEMANTICS
.TS
allbox;
l 
l .
TCS
Enclave access
.TE

.PP
EENTER is a serializing instruction. The instruction faults if any of
the following occurs:

.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
T{
Address in RBX is not properly aligned.
T}
	T{
Any TCS.FLAGS’s must\-be\-zero bit is not zero.
T}
T{
TCS pointed to by RBX is not valid or available or locked.
T}
	T{
Current 32/64 mode does not match the enclave mode in SECS.ATTRIBUTES.MODE64.
T}
The SECS is in use.	T{
Either of TCS\-specified FS and GS segment is not a subsets of the current DS segment.
T}
T{
Any one of DS, ES, CS, SS is not zero.
T}
	T{
If XSAVE available, CR4.OSXSAVE = 0, but SECS.ATTRIBUTES.XFRM ≠ 3.
T}
CR4.OSFXSR ≠ 1.	T{
If CR4.OSXSAVE = 1, SECS.ATTRIBUTES.XFRM is not a subset of XCR0.
T}
.TE

.PP
The following operations are performed by EENTER:

.RS
.IP \(bu 2
RSP and RBP are saved in the current SSA frame on EENTER and are
automatically restored on EEXIT or interrupt.
.IP \(bu 2
The AEP contained in RCX is stored into the TCS for use by AEXs.FS
and GS (including hidden portions) are saved and new values are
constructed using TCS.OFSBASE/GSBASE (32 and 64\-bit mode) and
TCS.OFSLIMIT/GSLIMIT (32\-bit mode only). The resulting segments must
be a subset of the DS segment.
.IP \(bu 2
If CR4.OSXSAVE == 1, XCR0 is saved and replaced by
SECS.ATTRIBUTES.XFRM. The effect of RFLAGS.TF depends on whether the
enclave entry is opt\-in or opt\-out (see Section 42.1.2):
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
On opt\-out entry, TF is saved and cleared (it is restored on
EEXIT or AEX). Any attempt to set TF via a POPF instruction
while inside the enclave clears TF (see Section 42.2.5).
.IP \(bu 2
On opt\-out entry, TF is saved and cleared (it is restored on
EEXIT or AEX). Any attempt to set TF via a POPF instruction
while inside the enclave clears TF (see Section 42.2.5).
.IP \(bu 2
On opt\-in entry, a single\-step debug exception is pended on the
instruction boundary immediately after EENTER (see Section
42.2.2).
.IP \(bu 2
On opt\-in entry, a single\-step debug exception is pended on the
instruction boundary immediately after EENTER (see Section
42.2.2).

.RE

.IP \(bu 2
All code breakpoints that do not overlap with ELRANGE are also
suppressed. If the entry is an opt\-out entry, all code and data
breakpoints that overlap with the ELRANGE are suppressed.
.IP \(bu 2
On opt\-out entry, a number of performance monitoring counters and
behaviors are modified or suppressed (see Section 42.2.3):
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
All performance monitoring activity on the current thread is
suppressed except for incrementing and firing of FIXED\_CTR1 and
FIXED\_CTR2.
.IP \(bu 2
All performance monitoring activity on the current thread is
suppressed except for incrementing and firing of FIXED\_CTR1 and
FIXED\_CTR2.
.IP \(bu 2
PEBS is suppressed.
.IP \(bu 2
PEBS is suppressed.
.IP \(bu 2
AnyThread counting on other threads is demoted to MyThread mode
and IA32\_PERF\_GLOBAL\_STATUS[60] on that thread is set
.IP \(bu 2
AnyThread counting on other threads is demoted to MyThread mode
and IA32\_PERF\_GLOBAL\_STATUS[60] on that thread is set
.IP \(bu 2
If the opt\-out entry on a hardware thread results in suppression
of any performance monitoring, then the processor sets
IA32\_PERF\_GLOBAL\_STATUS[60] and
IA32\_PERF\_GLOBAL\_STATUS[63]\&.
.IP \(bu 2
If the opt\-out entry on a hardware thread results in suppression
of any performance monitoring, then the processor sets
IA32\_PERF\_GLOBAL\_STATUS[60] and
IA32\_PERF\_GLOBAL\_STATUS[63]\&.

.RE


.RE

.SS Concurrency Restrictions
.PP
Leaf

.PP
Parameter

.PP
Base Concurrency Restrictions

.PP
Access

.PP
On Conflict

.PP
SGX\_CONFLICT VM Exit Qualification

.PP
EENTER

.PP
TCS [DS:RBX]

.PP
Shared

.PP
#GP

.PP
Table 40\-60\&. Base Concurrency
Restrictions of EENTER

.PP
Leaf

.PP
Parameter

.PP
Additional Concurrency Restrictions

.PP
vs. EACCEPT, EACCEPTCOPY, EMODPE, EMODPR, EMODT

.PP
vs. EADD, EEXTEND, EINIT

.PP
vs. ETRACK, ETRACKC

.PP
Access

.PP
On Conflict

.PP
Access

.PP
On Conflict

.PP
Access

.PP
On Conflict

.PP
EENTER

.PP
TCS [DS:RBX]

.PP
Concurrent

.PP
Concurrent

.PP
Concurrent

.PP
Table 40\-61\&. Additional Concurrency
Restrictions of EENTER

.SS Operation
.SH TEMP VARIABLES IN EENTER OPERATIONAL FLOW
.TS
allbox;
l l l l 
l l l l .
\fB\fCName\fR	\fB\fCType\fR	\fB\fCSize (Bits)\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
TMP\_FSBASE	Effective Address	32/64	T{
Proposed base address for FS segment.
T}
TMP\_GSBASE	Effective Address	32/64	T{
Proposed base address for FS segment.
T}
TMP\_FSLIMIT	Effective Address	32/64	T{
Highest legal address in proposed FS segment.
T}
TMP\_GSLIMIT	Effective Address	32/64	T{
Highest legal address in proposed GS segment.
T}
TMP\_XSIZE	integer	64	T{
Size of XSAVE area based on SECS.ATTRIBUTES.XFRM.
T}
TMP\_SSA\_PAGE	Effective Address	32/64	T{
Pointer used to iterate over the SSA pages in the current frame.
T}
TMP\_GPR	Effective Address	32/64	T{
Address of the GPR area within the current SSA frame.
T}
.TE

.PP
TMP\_MODE64←((IA32\_EFER.LMA = 1) \&\& (CS.L = 1));

.PP
(* Make sure DS is usable, expand up *)

.PP
IF (TMP\_MODE64 = 0 and (DS not usable or ( ( DS[S] = 1) and (DS[bit
11] = 0) and DS[bit 10] = 1) ) )

.PP
THEN #GP(0); FI;

.PP
(* Check that CS, SS, DS, ES.base is 0 *)

.PP
IF (TMP\_MODE64 = 0)

.PP
THEN

.PP
IF(CS.base ≠ 0 or DS.base ≠ 0) #GP(0); FI;

.PP
IF(ES usable and ES.base ≠ 0) #GP(0); FI;

.PP
IF(SS usable and SS.base ≠ 0) #GP(0); FI;

.PP
IF(SS usable and SS.B = 0) #GP(0); FI;

.PP
FI;

.PP
IF (DS:RBX is not 4KByte Aligned)

.PP
THEN #GP(0); FI;

.PP
IF (DS:RBX does not resolve within an EPC)

.PP
THEN #PF(DS:RBX); FI;

.PP
(* Check AEP is canonical*)

.PP
IF (TMP\_MODE64 = 1 and (CS:RCX is not canonical) )

.PP
THEN #GP(0); FI;

.PP
(* Check concurrency of TCS operation*)

.PP
IF (Other Intel SGX instructions is operating on TCS)

.PP
THEN #GP(0); FI;

.PP
(* TCS verification *)

.PP
IF (EPCM(DS:RBX).VALID = 0)

.PP
THEN #PF(DS:RBX); FI;

.PP
IF (EPCM(DS:RBX).BLOCKED = 1)

.PP
THEN #PF(DS:RBX); FI;

.PP
IF ( (EPCM(DS:RBX).ENCLAVEADDRESS ≠ DS:RBX) or (EPCM(DS:RBX).PT ≠
PT\_TCS) )

.PP
THEN #PF(DS:RBX); FI;

.PP
IF ((EPCM(DS:RBX).PENDING = 1) or (EPCM(DS:RBX).MODIFIED = 1))

.PP
THEN #PF(DS:RBX); FI;

.PP
IF ( (DS:RBX).OSSA is not 4KByte Aligned)

.PP
THEN #GP(0); FI;

.PP
(* Check proposed FS and GS *)

.PP
IF ( ( (DS:RBX).OFSBASE is not 4KByte Aligned) or ( (DS:RBX).OGSBASE is
not 4KByte Aligned) )

.PP
THEN #GP(0); FI;

.PP
(* Get the SECS for the enclave in which the TCS resides *)

.PP
TMP\_SECS←Address of SECS for TCS;

.PP
(* Check proposed FS/GS segments fall within DS *)

.PP
IF (TMP\_MODE64 = 0)

.PP
THEN

.PP
TMP\_FSBASE←(DS:RBX).OFSBASE + TMP\_SECS.BASEADDR;

.PP
TMP\_FSLIMIT←(DS:RBX).OFSBASE + TMP\_SECS.BASEADDR + (DS:RBX).FSLIMIT;

.PP
TMP\_GSBASE←(DS:RBX).OGSBASE + TMP\_SECS.BASEADDR;

.PP
TMP\_GSLIMIT←(DS:RBX).OGSBASE + TMP\_SECS.BASEADDR + (DS:RBX).GSLIMIT;

.PP
(* if FS wrap\-around, make sure DS has no holes*)

.PP
IF (TMP\_FSLIMIT \&lt; TMP\_FSBASE)

.PP
THEN

.PP
IF (DS.limit \&lt; 4GB) THEN #GP(0); FI;

.PP
ELSE

.PP
IF (TMP\_FSLIMIT \&gt; DS.limit) THEN #GP(0); FI;

.PP
FI;

.PP
(* if GS wrap\-around, make sure DS has no holes*)

.PP
IF (TMP\_GSLIMIT \&lt; TMP\_GSBASE)

.PP
THEN

.PP
IF (DS.limit \&lt; 4GB) THEN #GP(0); FI;

.PP
ELSE

.PP
IF (TMP\_GSLIMIT \&gt; DS.limit) THEN #GP(0); FI;

.PP
FI;

.PP
ELSE

.PP
TMP\_FSBASE←(DS:RBX).OFSBASE + TMP\_SECS.BASEADDR;

.PP
TMP\_GSBASE←(DS:RBX).OGSBASE + TMP\_SECS.BASEADDR;

.PP
IF ( (TMP\_FSBASE is not canonical) or (TMP\_GSBASE is not canonical))

.PP
THEN #GP(0); FI;

.PP
FI;

.PP
(* Ensure that the FLAGS field in the TCS does not have any reserved
bits set *)

.PP
IF ( ( (DS:RBX).FLAGS \& FFFFFFFFFFFFFFFEH) ≠ 0)

.PP
THEN #GP(0); FI;

.PP
(* SECS must exist and enclave must have previously been EINITted *)

.PP
IF (the enclave is not already initialized)

.PP
THEN #GP(0); FI;

.PP
(* make sure the logical processor’s operating mode matches the enclave
*)

.PP
IF ( (TMP\_MODE64 ≠ TMP\_SECS.ATTRIBUTES.MODE64BIT) )

.PP
THEN #GP(0); FI;

.PP
IF (CR4.OSFXSR = 0)

.PP
THEN #GP(0); FI;

.PP
(* Check for legal values of SECS.ATTRIBUTES.XFRM *)

.PP
IF (CR4.OSXSAVE = 0)

.PP
THEN

.PP
IF (TMP\_SECS.ATTRIBUTES.XFRM ≠ 03H) THEN #GP(0); FI;

.PP
ELSE

.PP
IF ( (TMP\_SECS.ATTRIBUTES.XFRM \& XCR0) ≠ TMP\_SECS.ATTRIBUES.XFRM) THEN
#GP(0); FI;

.PP
FI;

.PP
(* Make sure the SSA contains at least one more frame *) IF (
(DS:RBX).CSSA ≥ (DS:RBX).NSSA) THEN #GP(0); FI;

.PP
(* Compute linear address of SSA frame *)

.PP
TMP\_SSA←(DS:RBX).OSSA + TMP\_SECS.BASEADDR + 4096 *
TMP\_SECS.SSAFRAMESIZE * (DS:RBX).CSSA;

.PP
TMP\_XSIZE ← compute\_XSAVE\_frame\_size(TMP\_SECS.ATTRIBUTES.XFRM);

.PP
FOR EACH TMP\_SSA\_PAGE = TMP\_SSA to TMP\_SSA + TMP\_XSIZE

.PP
(* Check page is read/write accessible *)

.PP
Check that DS:TMP\_SSA\_PAGE is read/write accessible;

.PP
If a fault occurs, release locks, abort and deliver that fault;

.PP
IF (DS:TMP\_SSA\_PAGE does not resolve to EPC page)

.PP
THEN #PF(DS:TMP\_SSA\_PAGE); FI;

.PP
IF (EPCM(DS:TMP\_SSA\_PAGE).VALID = 0)

.PP
THEN #PF(DS:TMP\_SSA\_PAGE); FI;

.PP
IF (EPCM(DS:TMP\_SSA\_PAGE).BLOCKED = 1)

.PP
THEN #PF(DS:TMP\_SSA\_PAGE); FI;

.PP
IF ((EPCM(DS:TMP\_SSA\_PAGE).PENDING = 1) or
(EPCM(DS:TMP\_SSA\_PAGE).MODIFIED = 1))

.PP
THEN #PF(DS:TMP\_SSA\_PAGE); FI;

.PP
IF ( ( EPCM(DS:TMP\_SSA\_PAGE).ENCLAVEADDRESS ≠ DS:TMP\_SSA\_PAGE) or
(EPCM(DS:TMP\_SSA\_PAGE).PT ≠ PT\_REG) or

.PP
(EPCM(DS:TMP\_SSA\_PAGE).ENCLAVESECS ≠ EPCM(DS:RBX).ENCLAVESECS) or

.PP
(EPCM(DS:TMP\_SSA\_PAGE).R = 0) or (EPCM(DS:TMP\_SSA\_PAGE).W = 0) )

.PP
THEN #PF(DS:TMP\_SSA\_PAGE); FI;

.PP
CR\_XSAVE\_PAGE\_n ← Physical\_Address(DS:TMP\_SSA\_PAGE);

.PP
ENDFOR

.PP
(* Compute address of GPR area*)

.PP
TMP\_GPR←TMP\_SSA + 4096 * DS:TMP\_SECS.SSAFRAMESIZE \-
sizeof(GPRSGX\_AREA);

.PP
If a fault occurs; release locks, abort and deliver that fault;

.PP
IF (DS:TMP\_GPR does not resolve to EPC page)

.PP
THEN #PF(DS:TMP\_GPR); FI;

.PP
IF (EPCM(DS:TMP\_GPR).VALID = 0)

.PP
THEN #PF(DS:TMP\_GPR); FI;

.PP
IF (EPCM(DS:TMP\_GPR).BLOCKED = 1)

.PP
THEN #PF(DS:TMP\_GPR); FI;

.PP
IF ((EPCM(DS:TMP\_GPR).PENDING = 1) or (EPCM(DS:TMP\_GPR).MODIFIED = 1))

.PP
THEN #PF(DS:TMP\_GPR); FI;

.PP
IF ( ( EPCM(DS:TMP\_GPR).ENCLAVEADDRESS ≠ DS:TMP\_GPR) or
(EPCM(DS:TMP\_GPR).PT ≠ PT\_REG) or

.PP
(EPCM(DS:TMP\_GPR).ENCLAVESECS EPCM(DS:RBX).ENCLAVESECS) or

.PP
(EPCM(DS:TMP\_GPR).R = 0) or (EPCM(DS:TMP\_GPR).W = 0) )

.PP
THEN #PF(DS:TMP\_GPR); FI;

.PP
IF (TMP\_MODE64 = 0)

.PP
THEN

.PP
IF (TMP\_GPR + (GPR\_SIZE \-1) is not in DS segment) THEN #GP(0); FI;

.PP
FI;

.PP
CR\_GPR\_PA←Physical\_Address (DS: TMP\_GPR);

.PP
(* Validate TCS.OENTRY *)

.PP
TMP\_TARGET←(DS:RBX).OENTRY + TMP\_SECS.BASEADDR;

.PP
IF (TMP\_MODE64 = 1)

.PP
THEN

.PP
IF (TMP\_TARGET is not canonical) THEN #GP(0); FI;

.PP
ELSE

.PP
IF (TMP\_TARGET \&gt; CS limit) THEN #GP(0); FI;

.PP
FI;

.PP
(* Ensure the enclave is not already active and this thread is the only
one using the TCS*)

.PP
IF (DS:RBX.STATE = ACTIVE)

.PP
THEN #GP(0); FI;

.PP
CR\_ENCLAVE\_MODE ← 1;

.PP
CR\_ACTIVE\_SECS ← TMP\_SECS;

.PP
CR\_ELRANGE←(TMPSECS.BASEADDR, TMP\_SECS.SIZE);

.PP
(* Save state for possible AEXs *)

.PP
CR\_TCS\_PA←Physical\_Address (DS:RBX);

.PP
CR\_TCS\_LA ← RBX;

.PP
CR\_TCS\_LA.AEP ← RCX;

.PP
(* Save the hidden portions of FS and GS *)

.PP
CR\_SAVE\_FS\_selector ← FS.selector;

.PP
CR\_SAVE\_FS\_base ← FS.base;

.PP
CR\_SAVE\_FS\_limit ← FS.limit;

.PP
CR\_SAVE\_FS\_access\_rights ← FS.access\_rights;

.PP
CR\_SAVE\_GS\_selector ← GS.selector;

.PP
CR\_SAVE\_GS\_base ← GS.base;

.PP
CR\_SAVE\_GS\_limit ← GS.limit;

.PP
CR\_SAVE\_GS\_access\_rights ← GS.access\_rights;

.PP
(* If XSAVE is enabled, save XCR0 and replace it with
SECS.ATTRIBUTES.XFRM*)

.PP
IF (CR4.OSXSAVE = 1)

.PP
CR\_SAVE\_XCR0 ← XCR0;

.PP
XCR0 ← TMP\_SECS.ATTRIBUTES.XFRM;

.PP
FI;

.PP
RCX ← RIP;

.PP
RIP ← TMP\_TARGET;

.PP
RAX ← (DS:RBX).CSSA;

.PP
(* Save the outside RSP and RBP so they can be restored on interrupt or
EEXIT *)

.PP
DS:TMP\_SSA.U\_RSP ← RSP;

.PP
DS:TMP\_SSA.U\_RBP ← RBP;

.PP
(* Do the FS/GS swap *)

.PP
FS.base ← TMP\_FSBASE;

.PP
FS.limit ← DS:RBX.FSLIMIT;

.PP
FS.type ← 0001b;

.PP
FS.W ← DS.W;

.PP
FS.S ← 1;

.PP
FS.DPL ← DS.DPL;

.PP
FS.G ← 1;

.PP
FS.B ← 1;

.PP
FS.P ← 1;

.PP
FS.AVL ← DS.AVL;

.PP
FS.L ← DS.L;

.PP
FS.unusable ← 0;

.PP
FS.selector ← 0BH;

.PP
GS.base ← TMP\_GSBASE;

.PP
GS.limit ← DS:RBX.GSLIMIT;

.PP
GS.type ← 0001b;

.PP
GS.W ← DS.W;

.PP
GS.S ← 1;

.PP
GS.DPL ← DS.DPL;

.PP
GS.G ← 1;

.PP
GS.B ← 1;

.PP
GS.P ← 1;

.PP
GS.AVL ← DS.AVL;

.PP
GS.L ← DS.L;

.PP
GS.unusable ← 0;

.PP
GS.selector ← 0BH;

.PP
CR\_DBGOPTIN ← TCS.FLAGS.DBGOPTIN;

.PP
Suppress\_all\_code\_breakpoints\_that\_are\_outside\_ELRANGE;

.PP
IF (CR\_DBGOPTIN = 0)

.PP
THEN

.PP
Suppress\_all\_code\_breakpoints\_that\_overlap\_with\_ELRANGE;

.PP
CR\_SAVE\_TF ← RFLAGS.TF;

.PP
RFLAGS.TF ← 0;

.PP
Suppress\_monitor\_trap\_flag for the source of the execution of the
enclave;

.PP
Suppress any pending debug exceptions;

.PP
Suppress any pending MTF VM exit;

.PP
ELSE

.PP
IF RFLAGS.TF = 1

.PP
THEN pend a single\-step #DB at the end of EENTER; FI;

.PP
IF the “monitor trap flag” VM\-execution control is set

.PP
THEN pend an MTF VM exit at the end of EENTER; FI;

.PP
FI;

.PP
Flush\_linear\_context;

.PP
Allow\_front\_end\_to\_begin\_fetch\_at\_new\_RIP;

.SS Flags Affected
.PP
RFLAGS.TF is cleared on opt\-out entry

.SS Protected Mode Exceptions
.PP
#GP(0)

.PP
If DS:RBX is not page aligned.

.PP
If the enclave is not initialized.

.PP
If part or all of the FS or GS segment specified by TCS is outside the
DS segment or not properly aligned.

.PP
If the thread is not in the INACTIVE state.

.PP
If CS, DS, ES or SS bases are not all zero.

.PP
If executed in enclave mode.

.PP
If any reserved field in the TCS FLAG is set.

.PP
If the target address is not within the CS segment.

.PP
If CR4.OSFXSR = 0.

.PP
If CR4.OSXSAVE = 0 and SECS.ATTRIBUTES.XFRM ≠ 3.

.PP
If CR4.OSXSAVE = 1and SECS.ATTRIBUTES.XFRM is not a subset of XCR0.

.PP
#PF(error

.PP
code) If a page fault occurs in accessing memory.

.PP
If DS:RBX does not point to a valid TCS.

.PP
If one or more pages of the current SSA frame are not readable/writable,
or do not resolve to a valid PT\_REG EPC page.

.SS 64\-Bit Mode Exceptions
.PP
#GP(0)

.PP
If DS:RBX is not page aligned.

.PP
If the enclave is not initialized.

.PP
If the thread is not in the INACTIVE state.

.PP
If CS, DS, ES or SS bases are not all zero.

.PP
If executed in enclave mode.

.PP
If part or all of the FS or GS segment specified by TCS is outside the
DS segment or not properly aligned.

.PP
If the target address is not canonical.

.PP
If CR4.OSFXSR = 0.

.PP
If CR4.OSXSAVE = 0 and SECS.ATTRIBUTES.XFRM ≠ 3.

.PP
If CR4.OSXSAVE = 1and SECS.ATTRIBUTES.XFRM is not a subset of XCR0.

.PP
#PF(error

.PP
code) If a page fault occurs in accessing memory operands.

.PP
If DS:RBX does not point to a valid TCS.

.PP
If one or more pages of the current SSA frame are not readable/writable,
or do not resolve to a valid PT\_REG EPC page.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
