.nh
.TH "X86-FSIN" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
FSIN - SINE
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode\fR	\fB\fCInstruction\fR	\fB\fC64\-Bit Mode\fR	\fB\fCCompat/Leg Mode\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
D9 FE	FSIN	Valid	Valid	T{
Replace ST(0) with the approximate of its sine.
T}
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Computes an approximation of the sine of the source operand in register
ST(0) and stores the result in ST(0). The source operand must be given
in radians and must be within the range −263. The following table shows
the results obtained when taking the sine of various classes of numbers,
assuming that underflow does not occur.

.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
\fB\fCSRC (ST(0))\fR	\fB\fCDEST (ST(0))\fR
−∞	
*
−F	− 1 to + 1
−0	−0
+0	+0
+F	− 1 to +1
+∞	
*
NaN	NaN
.TE

.PP
Table 3\-35. FSIN Results

.PP
.RS

.PP
F Meansfinitefloating\-pointvalue.

.PP
* Indicatesfloating\-pointinvalid\-arithmetic\-operand(#IA)exception.

.RE

.PP
If the source operand is outside the acceptable range, the C2 flag in
the FPU status word is set, and the value in register ST(0) remains
unchanged. The instruction does not raise an exception when the source
operand is out of range. It is up to the program to check the C2 flag
for out\-of\-range conditions. Source values outside the range − 263,
inaccurate results can occur because the finite approximation of π used
internally for argument reduction is not sufficient in all cases.
Therefore, for accurate results it is safe to apply FSIN only to
arguments reduced accurately in software, to a value smaller in absolute
value than 3π/4. See the sections titled “Approximation of Pi” and
“Transcendental Instruction Accuracy” in Chapter 8 of the Intel® 64 and
IA\-32 Architectures Software Developer’s Manual, Volume 1, for a
discussion of the proper value to use for π in performing such
reductions.

.PP
This instruction’s operation is the same in non\-64\-bit modes and 64\-bit
mode.

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
IF \-263
    THEN
        C2 ← 0;
        ST(0) ← fsin(ST(0)); // approximation of the mathematical sin function
    ELSE (* Source operand out of range *)
        C2 ← 1;
FI;

.fi
.RE

.SH FPU FLAGS AFFECTED
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
C1	T{
Set to 0 if stack underflow occurred.
T}
	T{
Set if result was rounded up; cleared otherwise.
T}
	T{
Set to 1 if outside range (−263 
T}
\&lt;
 source operand 
\&lt;
 +263); otherwise, set to 0.
C2	C0, C3	Undefined.
.TE

.SH FLOATING\-POINT EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#IS	Stack underflow occurred.
#IA	T{
Source operand is an SNaN value, ∞, or unsupported format.
T}
#D	T{
Source operand is a denormal value.
T}
#P	T{
Value cannot be represented exactly in destination format.
T}
.TE

.SH PROTECTED MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#NM	CR0.EM
[
bit 2
]
 or CR0.TS
[
bit 3
]
 = 1.
#MF	T{
If there is a pending x87 FPU exception.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH REAL\-ADDRESS MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH VIRTUAL\-8086 MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH COMPATIBILITY MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH 64\-BIT MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
