.nh
.TH "X86-SYSENTER" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
SYSENTER - FAST SYSTEM CALL
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode\fR	\fB\fCInstruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64\-Bit Mode\fR	\fB\fCCompat/Leg Mode\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
0F 34	SYSENTER	ZO	Valid	Valid	T{
Fast call to privilege level 0 system procedures.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
Op/En	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
ZO	NA	NA	NA	NA
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Executes a fast call to a level 0 system procedure or routine. SYSENTER
is a companion instruction to SYSEXIT. The instruction is optimized to
provide the maximum performance for system calls from user code running
at privilege level 3 to operating system or executive procedures running
at privilege level 0.

.PP
When executed in IA\-32e mode, the SYSENTER instruction transitions the
logical processor to 64\-bit mode; otherwise, the logical processor
remains in protected mode.

.PP
Prior to executing the SYSENTER instruction, software must specify the
privilege level 0 code segment and code entry point, and the privilege
level 0 stack segment and stack pointer by writing values to the
following MSRs:

.RS
.IP \(bu 2
IA32\_SYSENTER\_CS (MSR address 174H) — The lower 16 bits of this
MSR are the segment selector for the privilege level 0 code segment.
This value is also used to determine the segment selector of the
privilege level 0 stack segment (see the Operation section). This
value cannot indicate a null selector.
.IP \(bu 2
IA32\_SYSENTER\_EIP (MSR address 176H) — The value of this MSR is
loaded into RIP (thus, this value references the first instruction
of the selected operating procedure or routine). In protected mode,
only bits 31:0 are loaded.
.IP \(bu 2
IA32\_SYSENTER\_ESP (MSR address 175H) — The value of this MSR is
loaded into RSP (thus, this value contains the stack pointer for the
privilege level 0 stack). This value cannot represent a
non\-canonical address. In protected mode, only bits 31:0 are loaded.

.RE

.PP
These MSRs can be read from and written to using RDMSR/WRMSR. The WRMSR
instruction ensures that the IA32\_SYSENTER\_EIP and IA32\_SYSENTER\_ESP
MSRs always contain canonical addresses.

.PP
While SYSENTER loads the CS and SS selectors with values derived from
the IA32\_SYSENTER\_CS MSR, the CS and SS descriptor caches are not
loaded from the descriptors (in GDT or LDT) referenced by those
selectors. Instead, the descriptor caches are loaded with fixed values.
See the Operation section for details. It is the responsibility of OS
software to ensure that the descriptors (in GDT or LDT) referenced by
those selector values correspond to the fixed values loaded into the
descriptor caches; the SYSENTER instruction does not ensure this
correspondence.

.PP
The SYSENTER instruction can be invoked from all operating modes except
real\-address mode.

.PP
The SYSENTER and SYSEXIT instructions are companion instructions, but
they do not constitute a call/return pair. When executing a SYSENTER
instruction, the processor does not save state information for the user
code (e.g., the instruction pointer), and neither the SYSENTER nor the
SYSEXIT instruction supports passing parameters on the stack.

.PP
To use the SYSENTER and SYSEXIT instructions as companion instructions
for transitions between privilege level 3 code and privilege level 0
operating system procedures, the following conventions must be followed:

.RS
.IP \(bu 2
The segment descriptors for the privilege level 0 code and stack
segments and for the privilege level 3 code and stack segments must
be contiguous in a descriptor table. This convention allows the
processor to compute the segment selectors from the value entered in
the SYSENTER\_CS\_MSR MSR.
.IP \(bu 2
The fast system call “stub” routines executed by user code
(typically in shared libraries or DLLs) must save the required
return IP and processor state information if a return to the calling
procedure is required. Likewise, the operating system or executive
procedures called with SYSENTER instructions must have access to and
use this saved return and state information when returning to the
user code.

.RE

.PP
The SYSENTER and SYSEXIT instructions were introduced into the IA\-32
architecture in the Pentium II processor. The availability of these
instructions on a processor is indicated with the SYSENTER/SYSEXIT
present (SEP) feature flag returned to the EDX register by the CPUID
instruction. An operating system that qualifies the SEP flag must also
qualify the processor family and model to ensure that the
SYSENTER/SYSEXIT instructions are actually present. For example:

.PP
IF CPUID SEP bit is set

.PP
THEN IF (Family = 6) and (Model \&lt; 3) and (Stepping \&lt; 3) THEN

.PP
SYSENTER/SYSEXIT\_Not\_Supported; FI;

.PP
ELSE

.PP
SYSENTER/SYSEXIT\_Supported; FI;

.PP
FI;

.PP
When the CPUID instruction is executed on the Pentium Pro processor
(model 1), the processor returns a the SEP flag as set, but does not
support the SYSENTER/SYSEXIT instructions.

.PP
Instruction ordering. Instructions following a SYSENTER may be fetched
from memory before earlier instructions complete execution, but they
will not execute (even speculatively) until all instructions prior to
the SYSENTER have completed execution (the later instructions may
execute before data stored by the earlier instructions have become
globally visible).

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
IF CR0.PE = 0 OR IA32\_SYSENTER\_CS[15:2] = 0 THEN #GP(0); FI;
RFLAGS.VM ← 0;
            (* Ensures protected mode execution *)
RFLAGS.IF ← 0;
            (* Mask interrupts *)
IF in IA\-32e mode
    THEN
        RSP ← IA32\_SYSENTER\_ESP;
        RIP ← IA32\_SYSENTER\_EIP;
ELSE
        ESP ← IA32\_SYSENTER\_ESP[31:0];
        EIP ← IA32\_SYSENTER\_EIP[31:0];
FI;
CS.Selector ← IA32\_SYSENTER\_CS[15:0] AND FFFCH;
            (* Operating system provides CS; RPL forced to 0 *)
(* Set rest of CS to a fixed value *)
CS.Base ← 0;
            (* Flat segment *)
CS.Limit ← FFFFFH;
            (* With 4\-KByte granularity, implies a 4\-GByte limit *)
CS.Type ← 11;
            (* Execute/read code, accessed *)
CS.S ← 1;
CS.DPL ← 0;
CS.P ← 1;
IF in IA\-32e mode
    THEN
        CS.L ← 1;
            (* Entry is to 64\-bit mode *)
        CS.D ← 0;
            (* Required if CS.L = 1 *)
    ELSE
        CS.L ← 0;
        CS.D ← 1;
            (* 32\-bit code segment*)
FI;
CS.G ← 1;
            (* 4\-KByte granularity *)
CPL ← 0;
SS.Selector ← CS.Selector + 8;
            (* SS just above CS *)
(* Set rest of SS to a fixed value *)
SS.Base ← 0;
            (* Flat segment *)
SS.Limit ← FFFFFH;
            (* With 4\-KByte granularity, implies a 4\-GByte limit *)
SS.Type ← 3;
            (* Read/write data, accessed *)
SS.S ← 1;
SS.DPL ← 0;
SS.P ← 1;
SS.B ← 1;
            (* 32\-bit stack segment*)
SS.G ← 1;
            (* 4\-KByte granularity *)

.fi
.RE

.SH FLAGS AFFECTED
.PP
VM, IF (see Operation above)

.SH PROTECTED MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP(0)	If IA32
\_
SYSENTER
\_
CS
[
15:2
]
 = 0.
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH REAL\-ADDRESS MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#GP	T{
The SYSENTER instruction is not recognized in real\-address mode.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
.TE

.SH VIRTUAL\-8086 MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH COMPATIBILITY MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH 64\-BIT MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
