.nh
.TH "X86-EDECVIRTCHILD" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
EDECVIRTCHILD - DECREMENT VIRTCHILDCNT IN SECS
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode/Instruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64/32 bit Mode Support\fR	\fB\fCCPUID Feature Flag\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
EAX = 00H ENCLV[EDECVIRTCHILD]	IR	V/V	EAX[5]	T{
This leaf function decrements the SECS VIRTCHILDCNT field.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l 
l l l l .
Op/En	EAX	RBX	RCX
IR	EDECVIRTCHILD (In)	T{
Address of an enclave page (In)
T}
	Address of an SECS page (In)
.TE

.SS Description
.PP
This instruction decrements the SECS VIRTCHILDCNT field. This
instruction can only be executed when current privilege level is 0.

.PP
The content of RCX is an effective address of an EPC page. The DS
segment is used to create linear address. Segment override is not
supported.

.SH EDECVIRTCHILD MEMORY PARAMETER SEMANTICS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
EPCPAGE	SECS
T{
Read/Write access permitted by Non Enclave
T}
	T{
Read access permitted by Enclave
T}
.TE

.PP
The instruction faults if any of the following:

.SH EDECVIRTCHILD FAULTING CONDITIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
T{
A memory operand effective address is outside the DS segment limit (32b mode).
T}
	T{
A page fault occurs in accessing memory operands.
T}
T{
DS segment is unusable (32b mode).
T}
	T{
RBX does not refer to an enclave page (REG, TCS, TRIM, SECS).
T}
T{
A memory address is in a non\-canonical form (64b mode).
T}
	T{
RCX does not refer to an SECS page.
T}
T{
A memory operand is not properly aligned.
T}
	T{
RBX does not refer to an enclave page associated with SECS referenced in RCX.
T}
.TE

.SS Concurrency Restrictions
.PP
Leaf

.PP
Parameter

.PP
Base Concurrency Restrictions

.PP
Access

.PP
On Conflict

.PP
SGX\_CONFLICT VM Exit Qualification

.PP
EDECVIRTCHILD

.PP
Target [DS:RBX]

.PP
Shared

.PP
SGX\_EPC\_PAGE\_ CONFLICT

.PP
SECS [DS:RCX]

.PP
Concurrent

.PP
Table 40\-74\&. Base Concurrency
Restrictions of EDECVIRTCHILD

.PP
Leaf

.PP
Parameter

.PP
Additional Concurrency Restrictions

.PP
vs. EACCEPT, EACCEPTCOPY, EMODPE, EMODPR, EMODT

.PP
vs. EADD, EEXTEND, EINIT

.PP
vs. ETRACK, ETRACKC

.PP
Access

.PP
On Conflict

.PP
Access

.PP
On Conflict

.PP
Access

.PP
On Conflict

.PP
EDECVIRTCHILD

.PP
Target [DS:RBX]

.PP
Concurrent

.PP
Concurrent

.PP
Concurrent

.PP
SECS [DS:RCX]

.PP
Concurrent

.PP
Concurrent

.PP
Concurrent

.PP
Table 40\-75\&. Additional Concurrency
Restrictions of EDECVIRTCHILD

.SS Operation
.SH TEMP VARIABLES IN EDECVIRTCHILD OPERATIONAL FLOW
.TS
allbox;
l l l l 
l l l l .
\fB\fCName\fR	\fB\fCType\fR	\fB\fCSize (bits)\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
TMP\_SECS	Physical Address	64	T{
Physical address of the SECS of the page being modified.
T}
TMP\_VIRTCHILDCNT	Integer	64	Number of virtual child pages.
.TE

.SH EDECVIRTCHILD RETURN VALUE IN RAX
.TS
allbox;
l l l 
l l l .
\fB\fCError\fR	\fB\fCValue\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
No Error	0	EDECVIRTCHILD Successful.
SGX\_EPC\_PAGE\_CONFLICT		T{
Failure due to concurrent operation of another SGX instruction.
T}
SGX\_INVALID\_COUNTER		T{
Attempt to decrement counter that is already zero.
T}
.TE

.PP
(* check alignment of DS:RBX *)

.PP
IF (DS:RBX is not 4K aligned) THEN

.PP
#GP(0); FI;

.PP
(* check DS:RBX is an linear address of an EPC page *)

.PP
IF (DS:RBX does not resolve within an EPC) THEN

.PP
#PF(DS:RBX, PFEC.SGX); FI;

.PP
(* check DS:RCX is an linear address of an EPC page *)

.PP
IF (DS:RCX does not resolve within an EPC) THEN

.PP
#PF(DS:RCX, PFEC.SGX); FI;

.PP
(* Check the EPCPAGE for concurrency *)

.PP
IF (EPCPAGE is being modified) THEN

.PP
RFLAGS.ZF = 1;

.PP
RAX = SGX\_EPC\_PAGE\_CONFLICT;

.PP
goto DONE;

.PP
FI;

.PP
(* check that the EPC page is valid *)

.PP
IF (EPCM(DS:RBX).VALID = 0) THEN

.PP
#PF(DS:RBX, PFEC.SGX); FI;

.PP
(* check that the EPC page has the correct type and that the back
pointer matches the pointer passed as the pointer to parent *)

.PP
IF ((EPCM(DS:RBX).PAGE\_TYPE = PT\_REG) or

.PP
(EPCM(DS:RBX).PAGE\_TYPE = PT\_TCS) or

.PP
(EPCM(DS:RBX).PAGE\_TYPE = PT\_TRIM) )

.PP
THEN

.PP
(* get the SECS of DS:RBX *)

.PP
TMP\_SECS←Address of SECS for (DS:RBX);

.PP
ELSE IF (EPCM(DS:RBX).PAGE\_TYPE = PT\_SECS) THEN

.PP
(* get the physical address of DS:RBX *)

.PP
TMP\_SECS ← Physical\_Address(DS:RBX);

.PP
ELSE

.PP
(* EDECVIRTCHILD called on page of incorrect type *)

.PP
#PF(DS:RBX, PFEC.SGX); FI;

.PP
IF (TMP\_SECS ≠ Physical\_Address(DS:RCX)) THEN

.PP
#GP(0); FI;

.PP
(* Atomically decrement virtchild counter and check for underflow *)

.PP
Locked\_Decrement(SECS(TMP\_SECS).VIRTCHILDCNT);

.PP
IF (There was an underflow) THEN

.PP
Locked\_Increment(SECS(TMP\_SECS).VIRTCHILDCNT);

.PP
RFLAGS.ZF ← 1;

.PP
RAX ← SGX\_INVALID\_COUNTER;

.PP
goto DONE;

.PP
FI;

.PP
RFLAGS.ZF ← 0;

.PP
RAX←0;

.PP
DONE:

.PP
(* clear flags *)

.PP
RFLAGS.CF ← 0;

.PP
RFLAGS.PF ← 0;

.PP
RFLAGS.AF ← 0;

.PP
RFLAGS.OF ← 0;

.PP
RFLAGS.SF ← 0;

.SS Flags Affected
.PP
ZF is set if EDECVIRTCHILD fails due to concurrent operation with
another SGX instruction, or if there is a VIRTCHILDCNT underflow.
Otherwise cleared.

.SS Protected Mode Exceptions
.PP
#GP(0)

.PP
If a memory operand effective address is outside the DS segment limit.

.PP
If DS segment is unusable.

.PP
If a memory operand is not properly aligned.

.PP
RBX does not refer to an enclave page associated with SECS referenced in
RCX.

.PP
#PF(error

.PP
code) If a page fault occurs in accessing memory operands.

.PP
If RBX does not refer to an enclave page (REG, TCS, TRIM, SECS).

.PP
If RCX does not refer to an SECS page.

.SS 64\-Bit Mode Exceptions
.PP
#GP(0)

.PP
If a memory address is in a non\-canonical form.

.PP
If a memory operand is not properly aligned.

.PP
RBX does not refer to an enclave page associated with SECS referenced in
RCX.

.PP
#PF(error

.PP
code) If a page fault occurs in accessing memory operands.

.PP
If RBX does not refer to an enclave page (REG, TCS, TRIM, SECS).

.PP
If RCX does not refer to an SECS page.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
