.nh
.TH "X86-CVTSI2SS" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
CVTSI2SS - CONVERT DOUBLEWORD INTEGER TO SCALAR SINGLE-PRECISION FLOATING-POINT VALUE
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode/Instruction\fR	\fB\fCOp / En\fR	\fB\fC64/32 bit Mode Support\fR	\fB\fCCPUID Feature Flag\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
T{
F3 0F 2A /r CVTSI2SS xmm1, r/m32
T}
	A	V/V	SSE	T{
Convert one signed doubleword integer from r/m32 to one single\-precision floating\-point value in xmm1.
T}
T{
F3 REX.W 0F 2A /r CVTSI2SS xmm1, r/m64
T}
	A	V/N.E.	SSE	T{
Convert one signed quadword integer from r/m64 to one single\-precision floating\-point value in xmm1.
T}
T{
VEX.LIG.F3.0F.W0 2A /r VCVTSI2SS xmm1, xmm2, r/m32
T}
	B	V/V	AVX	T{
Convert one signed doubleword integer from r/m32 to one single\-precision floating\-point value in xmm1.
T}
T{
VEX.LIG.F3.0F.W1 2A /r VCVTSI2SS xmm1, xmm2, r/m64
T}
	B	V/N.E.1	AVX	T{
Convert one signed quadword integer from r/m64 to one single\-precision floating\-point value in xmm1.
T}
T{
EVEX.LIG.F3.0F.W0 2A /r VCVTSI2SS xmm1, xmm2, r/m32{er}
T}
	C	V/V	AVX512F	T{
Convert one signed doubleword integer from r/m32 to one single\-precision floating\-point value in xmm1.
T}
T{
EVEX.LIG.F3.0F.W1 2A /r VCVTSI2SS xmm1, xmm2, r/m64{er}
T}
	C	V/N.E.1	AVX512F	T{
Convert one signed quadword integer from r/m64 to one single\-precision floating\-point value in xmm1.
T}
.TE

.PP
.RS

.PP
1\&. VEX.W1/EVEX.W1 in non\-64 bit is ignored; the instructions behaves
as if the W0 version is used.

.RE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l l 
l l l l l l .
Op/En	Tuple Type	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3	Operand 4
A	NA	ModRM:reg (w)	ModRM:r/m (r)	NA	NA
B	NA	ModRM:reg (w)	VEX.vvvv	ModRM:r/m (r)	NA
C	Tuple1 Scalar	ModRM:reg (w)	EVEX.vvvv	ModRM:r/m (r)	NA
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Converts a signed doubleword integer (or signed quadword integer if
operand size is 64 bits) in the “convert\-from” source operand to a
single\-precision floating\-point value in the destination operand (first
operand). The “convert\-from” source operand can be a general\-purpose
register or a memory location. The destination operand is an XMM
register. The result is stored in the low doubleword of the destination
operand, and the upper three doublewords are left unchanged. When a
conversion is inexact, the value returned is rounded according to the
rounding control bits in the MXCSR register or the embedded rounding
control bits.

.PP
128\-bit Legacy SSE version: In 64\-bit mode, Use of the REX.W prefix
promotes the instruction to use 64\-bit input value. The “convert\-from”
source operand (the second operand) is a general\-purpose register or
memory location. Bits (MAXVL\-1:32) of the corresponding destination
register remain unchanged.

.PP
VEX.128 and EVEX encoded versions: The “convert\-from” source operand
(the third operand) can be a general\-purpose register or a memory
location. The first source and destination operands are XMM registers.
Bits (127:32) of the XMM register destination are copied from
corresponding bits in the first source operand. Bits (MAXVL\-1:128) of
the destination register are zeroed.

.PP
EVEX encoded version: the converted result in written to the low
doubleword element of the destination under the writemask.

.PP
Software should ensure VCVTSI2SS is encoded with VEX.L=0. Encoding
VCVTSI2SS with VEX.L=1 may encounter unpredictable behavior across
different processor generations.

.SH OPERATION
.SS VCVTSI2SS (EVEX encoded version)
.PP
.RS

.nf
IF (SRC2 *is register*) AND (EVEX.b = 1)
    THEN
        SET\_RM(EVEX.RC);
    ELSE
        SET\_RM(MXCSR.RM);
FI;
IF 64\-Bit Mode And OperandSize = 64
THEN
    DEST[31:0] ← Convert\_Integer\_To\_Single\_Precision\_Floating\_Point(SRC[63:0]);
ELSE
    DEST[31:0] ← Convert\_Integer\_To\_Single\_Precision\_Floating\_Point(SRC[31:0]);
FI;
DEST[127:32] ← SRC1[127:32]
DEST[MAXVL\-1:128] ← 0

.fi
.RE

.SS VCVTSI2SS (VEX.128 encoded version)
.PP
.RS

.nf
IF 64\-Bit Mode And OperandSize = 64
THEN
    DEST[31:0] ←Convert\_Integer\_To\_Single\_Precision\_Floating\_Point(SRC[63:0]);
ELSE
    DEST[31:0] ←Convert\_Integer\_To\_Single\_Precision\_Floating\_Point(SRC[31:0]);
FI;
DEST[127:32] ←SRC1[127:32]
DEST[MAXVL\-1:128] ←0

.fi
.RE

.SS CVTSI2SS (128\-bit Legacy SSE version)
.PP
.RS

.nf
IF 64\-Bit Mode And OperandSize = 64
THEN
    DEST[31:0] ←Convert\_Integer\_To\_Single\_Precision\_Floating\_Point(SRC[63:0]);
ELSE
    DEST[31:0] ←Convert\_Integer\_To\_Single\_Precision\_Floating\_Point(SRC[31:0]);
FI;
DEST[MAXVL\-1:32] (Unmodified)

.fi
.RE

.SH INTEL C/C++ COMPILER INTRINSIC EQUIVALENT
.PP
.RS

.nf
VCVTSI2SS \_\_m128 \_mm\_cvti32\_ss(\_\_m128 s, int a);

VCVTSI2SS \_\_m128 \_mm\_cvt\_roundi32\_ss(\_\_m128 s, int a, int r);

VCVTSI2SS \_\_m128 \_mm\_cvti64\_ss(\_\_m128 s, \_\_int64 a);

VCVTSI2SS \_\_m128 \_mm\_cvt\_roundi64\_ss(\_\_m128 s, \_\_int64 a, int r);

CVTSI2SS \_\_m128 \_mm\_cvtsi64\_ss(\_\_m128 s, \_\_int64 a);

CVTSI2SS \_\_m128 \_mm\_cvtsi32\_ss(\_\_m128 a, int b);

.fi
.RE

.SH SIMD FLOATING\-POINT EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Precision

.SH OTHER EXCEPTIONS
.PP
VEX\-encoded instructions, see Exceptions Type 3.

.PP
EVEX\-encoded instructions, see Exceptions Type E3NF.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
