.nh
.TH "X86-BNDLDX" "7" "May 2019" "TTMO" "Intel x86-64 ISA Manual"
.SH NAME
BNDLDX - LOAD EXTENDED BOUNDS USING ADDRESS TRANSLATION
.TS
allbox;
l l l l l 
l l l l l .
\fB\fCOpcode/Instruction\fR	\fB\fCOp/En\fR	\fB\fC64/32 bit Mode Support\fR	\fB\fCCPUID Feature Flag\fR	\fB\fCDescription\fR
NP 0F 1A /r BNDLDX bnd, mib	RM	V/V	MPX	T{
Load the bounds stored in a bound table entry (BTE) into bnd with address translation using the base of mib and conditional on the index of mib matching the pointer value in the BTE.
T}
.TE

.SH INSTRUCTION OPERAND ENCODING
.TS
allbox;
l l l l 
l l l l .
Op/En	Operand 1	Operand 2	Operand 3
RM	ModRM:reg (w)	T{
SIB.base (r): Address of pointer SIB.index(r)
T}
	NA
.TE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
BNDLDX uses the linear address constructed from the base register and
displacement of the SIB\-addressing form of the memory operand (mib) to
perform address translation to access a bound table entry and
conditionally load the bounds in the BTE to the destination. The
destination register is updated with the bounds in the BTE, if the
content of the index register of mib matches the pointer value stored in
the BTE.

.PP
If the pointer value comparison fails, the destination is updated with
INIT bounds (lb = 0x0, ub = 0x0) (note: as articulated earlier, the
upper bound is represented using 1's complement, therefore, the 0x0
value of upper bound allows for access to full memory).

.PP
This instruction does not cause memory access to the linear address of
mib nor the effective address referenced by the base, and does not read
or write any flags.

.PP
Segment overrides apply to the linear address computation with the base
of mib, and are used during address translation to generate the address
of the bound table entry. By default, the address of the BTE is assumed
to be linear address. There are no segmentation checks performed on the
base of mib.

.PP
The base of mib will not be checked for canonical address violation as
it does not access memory.

.PP
Any encoding of this instruction that does not specify base or index
register will treat those registers as zero (constant). The reg\-reg form
of this instruction will remain a NOP.

.PP
The scale field of the SIB byte has no effect on these instructions and
is ignored.

.PP
The bound register may be partially updated on memory faults. The order
in which memory operands are loaded is implementation specific.

.SH OPERATION
.PP
.RS

.nf
base←mib.SIB.base ? mib.SIB.base + Disp: 0;
ptr\_value←mib.SIB.index ? mib.SIB.index : 0;

.fi
.RE

.SS Outside 64\-bit mode
.PP
.RS

.nf
A\_BDE[31:0]←(Zero\_extend32(base[31:12] « 2) + (BNDCFG[31:12] «12 );
A\_BT[31:0]←LoadFrom(A\_BDE );
IF A\_BT[0] equal 0 Then
    BNDSTATUS←A\_BDE | 02H;
    #BR;
FI;
A\_BTE[31:0]←(Zero\_extend32(base[11:2] « 4) + (A\_BT[31:2] « 2 );
Temp\_lb[31:0] ← LoadFrom(A\_BTE);
Temp\_ub[31:0]←LoadFrom(A\_BTE + 4);
Temp\_ptr[31:0]←LoadFrom(A\_BTE + 8);
IF Temp\_ptr equal ptr\_value Then
    BND.LB ← Temp\_lb;
    BND.UB ← Temp\_ub;
ELSE
    BND.LB ← 0;
    BND.UB ← 0;
FI;

.fi
.RE

.SS In 64\-bit mode
.PP
.RS

.nf
A\_BDE[63:0]←(Zero\_extend64(base[47+MAWA:20] « 3) + (BNDCFG[63:12] «12 );1
A\_BT[63:0] ← LoadFrom(A\_BDE);
IF A\_BT[0] equal 0 Then
    BNDSTATUS←A\_BDE | 02H;
    #BR;
FI;
A\_BTE[63:0]←(Zero\_extend64(base[19:3] « 5) + (A\_BT[63:3] « 3 );
Temp\_lb[63:0] ← LoadFrom(A\_BTE);
Temp\_ub[63:0]←LoadFrom(A\_BTE + 8);
Temp\_ptr[63:0]←LoadFrom(A\_BTE + 16);
IF Temp\_ptr equal ptr\_value Then
    BND.LB ← Temp\_lb;
    BND.UB ← Temp\_ub;
ELSE
    BND.LB ← 0;
    BND.UB ← 0;
FI;

.fi
.RE

.PP
.RS

.PP
1\&. If CPL \&lt; 3, the supervisor MAWA (MAWAS) is used; this value is
0. If CPL = 3, the user MAWA (MAWAU) is used; this value is enumerated
in CPUID.(EAX=07H,ECX=0H):ECX.MAWAU[bits 21:17]\&. See Section 17.3.1
of Intel® 64 and IA\-\&32 Architectures Software Developer’s Manual,
Volume 1.

.RE

.SH INTEL C/C++ COMPILER INTRINSIC EQUIVALENT
.PP
.RS

.nf
BNDLDX: Generated by compiler as needed.

.fi
.RE

.SH FLAGS AFFECTED
.PP
None

.SH PROTECTED MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#BR	T{
If the bound directory entry is invalid.
T}
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
	T{
If ModRM.r/m encodes BND4\-BND7 when Intel MPX is enabled.
T}
	T{
If 67H prefix is not used and CS.D=0.
T}
	T{
If 67H prefix is used and CS.D=1.
T}
#GP(0)	T{
If a destination effective address of the Bound Table entry is outside the DS segment limit.
T}
	T{
If DS register contains a NULL segment selector.
T}
#PF(fault	code) If a page fault occurs.
.TE

.SH REAL\-ADDRESS MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
	T{
If ModRM.r/m encodes BND4\-BND7 when Intel MPX is enabled.
T}
	If 16\-bit addressing is used.
#GP(0)	T{
If a destination effective address of the Bound Table entry is outside the DS segment limit.
T}
.TE

.SH VIRTUAL\-8086 MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#UD	If the LOCK prefix is used.
	T{
If ModRM.r/m encodes BND4\-BND7 when Intel MPX is enabled.
T}
	If 16\-bit addressing is used.
#GP(0)	T{
If a destination effective address of the Bound Table entry is outside the DS segment limit.
T}
#PF(fault	code) If a page fault occurs.
.TE

.SH COMPATIBILITY MODE EXCEPTIONS
.PP
Same exceptions as in protected mode.

.SH 64\-BIT MODE EXCEPTIONS
.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
#BR	T{
If the bound directory entry is invalid.
T}
#UD	If ModRM is RIP relative.
	If the LOCK prefix is used.
	T{
If ModRM.r/m and REX encodes BND4\-BND15 when Intel MPX is enabled.
T}
#GP(0)	If the memory address (A
\_
BDE or A
\_
T{
BTE) is in a non\-canonical form.
T}
#PF(fault	code) If a page fault occurs.
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
x86\-manpages(7) for a list of other x86\-64 man pages.

.SH COLOPHON
.PP
This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically\-separated, non\-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or broken in
various obvious or non\-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA\-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.

.br
This page is generated by scripts; therefore may contain visual or semantical bugs. Please report them (or better, fix them) on https://github.com/ttmo-O/x86-manpages.

.br
MIT licensed by TTMO 2020 (Turkish Unofficial Chamber of Reverse Engineers - https://ttmo.re).
